CHARACTER ABILITIES


Spin Dash (Sonic)
Press X to Spin Dash. Hold X then release for a longer Spin Dash.



Homing Attack (Sonic)
While in air, press X to attack enemies or certain objects.



Buddy Bot (Tails)
Press X to release a Buddy Bot to attack. Up to three buddy bots can be
released at a time.



Cluster Bomb (Tails)
While in air, press X to throw a bomb.



Hover (Tails)
While in air, press and hold B to hover.



Spin Hammer Attack (Amy)
Press X to perform a Spin Hammer Attack.



Air Spin Hammer Attack (Amy)
While in air, press X to attack with Amy's hammer.



Climb (Knuckles)
Press X to jump onto climbable walls. Then use control stick to move around.



Burrow (Knuckles)
Press and hold X to burrow under special surfaces. Use left stick to steer
while underground, and release X to pop back up and attack.



After the introduction cutscene, you'll begin the first level with a speed
section where Sonic and friends are running after Eggman (Robotnik for the
realz). Just jump to avoid obstacles until you land on safe ground. Not so safe
however as you'll need to battle some robot minions. Simply beat them all up
with your punches and kicks and then you'll finally be free to explore. Move
ahead a little and look on the left for a CHEST. Then jump down and follow the
rings until Tails points out a structure in the distance. Jump down and keep
following the path until you find a CROWN on the left. Right after that you'll
need to double jump your way across a chasm, but instead, drop down below to
find a CHEST. Then you can cross using the double jump.


On the path ahead, Sonic and Tails will split up. Just spin dash across the
path, then meet back up with Tails. You'll come to an area with a lot of
pillars scattered around. Before crossing them, stay on the ground and go to
end of the area to find a CHEST among the pillars. Then start climbing and
cross over using the pillars and your double jump. Just ahead on the right
you'll find a CROWN. Then walk up to the temple to meet up with Amy and
Knuckles. You'll need to fight some more robots using Knuckles. Then you'll
find yourselves inside the temple.


You'll play the different characters in unique sections. Starting with Sonic,
spin dash up the walls to the top and press the green button there with a
ground pound (jump + Y) , then jump down the new path and spin dash up. The
left green button just gives you some rings. Hit the right one, then jump down
and press it again. Destroy the wall on the left to find a CHEST. Press the
green buttons until you get to the bottom and then press the one on the left.
Press the next one, destroy the wall and spin dash to reach the next button.
Get the CHEST down there, then hit the button to the right.


Press the next button to move the ramp to the right, then spin dash up to reach
the CROWN. Press the same button again to move the ramp right, then spin dash
up, get the other CROWN and hit the new button to move a wall below. Go back
down and press the button twice to move the ramp where you can reach the CHEST
with a spin dash. Then press the button twice again to move back the ramp to
its initial position. Spin dash to reach the top, but don't jump on the final
spring, instead go back left and down and spin dash on the ramp to get a CROWN
above. Then you can use the springs to exit this place and hit the button at
the end to move the light. Jump on the spring to get back down and follow the
way until you are switched over to Tails.


First get the CHEST on the floor, then get up and press the button to move
upwards. Ground pound the weak floor panels on the left to collect a CROWN,
then press the button on the right to go up. You can ignore the weak floor on
the left, it just gives you some rings. Fly to the platform on the right and
hit the button. Then carefully jump down to the new button on a platform below.
Drop down after pressing it and get the CHEST. Then press the button on the
left to lower a wall and press the new button to go back up.


Press the following one to be back at the very top. You can get the CROWN on
the left using the springs, and there's also another CROWN to the right that
you can also get by flying and using the springs. Then jump on the platform in
the top-right corner and get the CHEST, then hit the button. You can now drop
down to the bottom and press the button on the right and the following to reach
the exit. Press the button to move the light, then get in the tube and follow
the path to switch over to Amy.


Triple jump to the top and press the button. Break the wall on the right to get
the CHEST, then break the wall on the left and jump down. Break another wall on
the left to get another CHEST, then break the wall to the right and hit the
button. Break the next wall and triple jump to the top where you'll need to
press another button. Now get back to where the wall moved and press the new
button. Hit the next one to go up, then go down and break the right wall. Jump
up, press the button to go down and break the left wall. Climb up left and
break the wall at the top to find a CROWN.


Then go back down to the right and press the button to go down, where you'll
press another button here. Use the platforms to climb and drop down on the
other side. Get the CHEST, then press the button to reverse the platforms. Be
quick to jump on them as they will move back and forth. When you reach the top,
break the weak floor panel on the right to get a CROWN, then climb to the very
top and go left. Break the weak floor panels here too to get another CROWN,
then head back up and right to leave this place. Hit the button to move the
light, then leave through the tube and follow the path to switch over to
Knuckles.


Climb up the walls until you reach the button at the top and press it to go
down. Break the wall on the left and climb all the way to the top. Climb using
the ceiling and drop down in the second pit to find a CHEST, then get back up
and move right, destroy the panels and press the button to go down. Climb up
the walls, then drop down below and get the CHEST. Hit the button to move the
ceiling, then climb back up and drop down on the left to collect the CROWN.
Climb again and this time go left, press the button to go down and break the
wall on the left to find a CHEST and a CROWN.


Then destroy the right wall and hit the button. Hit the two next ones, climb,
press the next one, climb, press next two, then climb again, press the button
at the top on the right, climb the ceiling, hit the left button and the next
one, climb some more, hit button, climb, and finally, double jump to the left
for a CROWN before leaving on the right. Press the final button to move the
light, then get back down and follow the path to a cutscene.


Beat up all the robots, then flying enemies will show up. Grab them with the
energy beam and throw them on the statue to break the wall. You can now use the
zip line to leave the temple. While you are on the zip line, there will be a
CROWN to the left near the end, press left at the right moment to grab it. Then
just race Lyric on the speed track until you reach the first hub world.




Collectibles for later: (after you have spoken to Sticks at Bygone Island)

SHINIES

1. This one is right at the very beginning of the level, where you fight the
robot enemies just after the speed segment.

2. This one is just a little before you find the temple in the forest, it's
right after the area with lots of blocks and pillars where you need to cross 
by jumping on the blocks.


Follow the path to the other side of the bridge and jump down in the quarry.
There are three machines here; you need to press the button on each one of them
to activate them. One has a button hidden under a crate and the last one you
need to break the wooden cage around the blue orb to activate the button. Once
all three are fonctional, jump on the platforms and use the energy beam on the
blue orbs to cross over to the other side. Also hit the button on the left to
lower the bridge and create a shortcut for convenience purposes.


Then just go right and down to the big quarry and speak with Cliff. After the
scene, follow the little robot and use the spring to go up to the mine carts
area. Hit the left mine cart, then jump onto the spring inside it to reach the
ledge above. Use the speed booss to get inside the mine, then hit the mine cart
and jump on the spring to go up. You can use robot parts to rebuild the
structure here. Approach the gate at the back and you'll obtain a new power
that lets you see hidden stuff; tap the icon on the gamepad to turn it on.
There's a hidden room through the left wall in this area. Locate it, then break
the wall and follow the new path. The room here has some more breakable walls
with hidden content, and the left one leads to a new room.


Break the wall at the end and hit the button, then use the spring to go up and
cross using the energy beam. Break the wall on the other side and press the
button. Drop back down and press the new button. Then just go upwards and and
collect the Crystal. Head back to the previous area and a mine worker will ask
for your help. Go left and follow the path down to an elevator that will take
you to the mine.


~~Rescuing the miners~~


There are four miners to rescue. With Amy or Knuckles, go right, break the
boulders, and go down and right again. There's a climbable wall here; either
climb up or triple jump and hit the button at the top. Then just go right and
break the boulders to rescue the miner. Now go left, up the climbable wall, and
press the button. The platform to the left will start moving. Jump on it to
cross, go left and break the boulder to save another miner.


Go back to the starting point and go left this time. Climb or jump up the red
wall, then hit the mine cart to move it left and jump on the spring to reach
the button above. Press it to open a trap door in the floor. What I did here to
get the CROWN above is bring both characters to this place (if you're playing
with someone else it will be easier, but totally do-able alone too) and hit the
mine cart with one character, then quickly switch to the other character and
jump on the cart while it passes under the crown. Then just jump down the trap
and use the zip line to the right to reach another part of the mine.


Go left and break the boulder. Push the mine cart to reveal a button; press it
to rotate the platform above, then hit the mine cart again to move it to the
right and use the spring underneath to reach the platform and grab the CROWN to
the right. Break the boulder then drop down and jump on the spring at the right
to reach a CHEST above. Then go left and break the boulder. You can use
Knuckles here and climb up the walls, or press the switch with Amy and then
cross using the energy beam. Then break the boulder on the left to rescue the
miner.


Now go back to the right where you found the chest and jump on the ledge above
it. Break the boulder and go right. Use the zip line to get a CROWN, then use
the zip line again to cross back to where you were at. Go back to the chest and
drop down. Go right this time and break the boulder blocking the way. Hit the
button to move the platforms, then triple jump or climb to reach the ledge to
the right where a CHEST lies. Then use the platforms to reach the top and break
the boulder to the right to rescue the last miner.


Then you'll need to fight a bunch of robots for absolutely no reason, but
whatever, defeat them and then speak with the worker above to receive your
reward. You'll then be taken to Cliff who will ask you to go set the crystal in
the lock of the first big gate you came across. So head back all the way to the
entrance of the hub world and open the first gate. Also talk to the turtle here
to start a side quest that can be completed in the next level.


Go into the now opened gate and use the bounce pads to reach the area above.
Using Sonic, stand on the blue sphere and press X to spin dash. Hold until one
lock on the door is removed. Then switch to Amy to jump on the beams to reach
the ledge to the left. Hit the switch to remove one more lock. Now switch to
Tails and fly over the vent to the right to reach the ledge above. Stand next
to the hole in the wall and press X to send a bot inside to remove the last
lock. Now the door is unlocked so head into the cave ahead to enter the next
level.


Collectibles you can get now:

CHESTS

1. At the very very beginning of the hub world where you first started off,
there is a chest on the cliffs (near the area with the turtle guy).

2. At the right of the start of the hub world, past the excavation site with
the crane, there is an area with a lot of boulders. Break them to reveal a
chest in one of the alcoves.

3. In the first small quarry where you pressed the three buttons to cross,
there's a chest at the back of the quarry behind some crates.

4. To the left of the cook's tent, climb up the cliff and spend some robot
parts to excavate the giant robot. Now you can use the bounce pad to the left
to start climbing the giant robot. Make your way to the right and use the
spring at the end to find the chest.

5. In the area with the mine carts, push the rightmost mine cart into the wall
to break the wooden planks. Go into this secret area to find a chest.

6. Also in the area with the mine carts, push the farthest mine cart left and
then jump in it to reach the cliff above. Hit the green button here to lower
the gate below. Now push the middle mine cart down that track and then jump in
it to reach the ledge above where a chest awaits.

7. In the mine section of the hub world, just as you enter the mine, there is a
chest to the right.

8. Still in the mine, in the secret room where you got the first Crystal, there
is a chest on the left of where the Crystal was.

9 & 10. These chests are obtainable in the section of the mine where you rescue
the miners. They're covered in the walkthrough if you scroll up.

11. After opening the gate leading to the Abandoned Facility level (near the
turtle guy), head up and fly up the vent using Tails. There's a chest at the
right on the ledge up here.


CROWNS

1. At the right of the start of the hub world (opposite side of the turtle
guy), spend robot points to fix the excavation site. The crane will break the
wall revealing a crown. To reach it, break the crates, then pull the handle and
jump on the platforms.

2. To the left of the first small quarry where you pressed the three buttons to
cross, spend some robot parts to rebuild the camp site. You can now climb on
the rooftops and find a crown.

3. To the left of the cook's tent, climb up the cliff, use the springs at the
left and use the energy beam to cross. Spend some robot parts to clear up the
blocked path. It leads to a speed section. At some point you will enter a cave;
grab the zip line to the right as the cave starts to collect a crown.

4. In the same section as mentioned above, you will collect a crown as you get
near the end of the speed section. Use the zip line near the end.

5. To the left of the cook's tent, climb up the cliff and spend some robot
parts to excavate the giant robot. Now you can use the bounce pad to the left
to start climbing the giant robot. Make your way to the right and use the
spring at the end to jump up, then jump to the left on the scaffholding and use
the energy beam and springs to climb to the very top of the robot, where a
crown awaits.

6. In the mine section of the hub world, spend some robot parts to excavate the
structure in the middle and a crown will appear.

7. Still in the mine, go in the secret passageway in the left wall that leads
to a small room with three breakable walls. One of them holds a crown.

8, 9 & 10. These crowns are obtainable in the section of the mine where you
rescue the miners. They're covered in the walkthrough if you scroll up.


You'll start in a cave. Look on the left behind you for a CHEST, then break the
boulders on the left to reveal another CHEST and use Amy to grab the CROWN on
the right side. Now get onto the speed section and as soon as you see the
energy beam zip line ahead, take it to go left instead and you'll get a CROWN
on this path. Then you'll wind up outside. Near the end of the path, jump to
hit a switch that will change the path; this path will let you grab another
CROWN, then you'll be back on the ground in front of the factory. Before going
on ahead, turn around and break the blocks behind you to reveal yet another
CROWN.


Then enter the factory and step on the tiles in the first room. Start from the
white one and blue tiles will light up; step on all of them in order to lower
the path ahead. Do the same thing with the tiles in the other part of the room
and some energy beam orbs will appear on the ceiling. Turn back and go up to
the back of the room. Cross using the energy beam, then enter the next room.
Here you can use either Knuckles or Amy to reach the top, but you'll need to
use both if you want to collect everything.


Start with Knuckles and climb up the wall on the left. You can then double jump
to reach a CROWN on the path above. That's all for this side, so jump back down
and climb up the front wall where the door is. Follow the path and use the
climbable spots to reach the ledge above. Get the CHEST on the left, then break
the blocks at the end of the path to reveal a spring. Use it to cling to the
ceiling above and climb to the end of the path, where you'll find a CROWN. Drop
down at the end of the path and follow the way to find two handles at the end.


Pull both of them with the energy beam to put the structure above into place,
then use the spring to jump up to the very top of the area. Here, pull the
handles with the energy beam (the other character will come and help you out if
you're playing alone) to open the door below. You'll lose Sonic and Tails for
the moment. Before moving on, there is still one more thing to get in this room
using Amy. Switch to her and climb up all the beams until you get to a ledge
above. Go right and get the CHEST at the end of the path. That's it, so drop
down and head through the new passageway that you opened.


In the new room, with Amy, jump on the beams to the left, then jump to the
right where the tree root is coming out of the wall to find a CHEST. Then jump
to the top area. Before crossing to the other side however, first drop down on
the right, on the other side of where the tree root is, there is a small ledge
with another CHEST on it (you should see it if you tilt the camera down while
at the top of the area). Then use the energy beam to cross. In the room ahead
you'll need to destroy a robot, then hit the button in the center and defeat
the other enemies.


Continue to the next room afterwards and pull the handles to lower the pillars.
Jump on the spring to reach the platform above, then turn around and look
behind you to see another platform with a CHEST on it in the corner of the
room. Get it, then hit the button on the first platform to deactivate the
barrier. Jump to the next platform on the left and break the blocks to reveal
another button. Press it to deactivate another barrier. Drop down and destroy
all the enemies, then step on the tiles to deactivate the last barrier. Use the
bounce pad to go up to the next room.


Go right and press the button, then you'll need to fight several enemies, and
hit the button each time to bring the platform up. Once you reach the top, pull
the handle in the right corner of the room to open a door. You'll need to use
both Knuckles and Amy for the following part. Starting with Knuckles, climb up
the wall ahead, then the ceiling and pull the handle at the end to start the
first battery. Then switch to Amy and follow the beams. When you reach the
leftmost beam, instead of going right, go left to find a CHEST, then triple
jump up the ledge to the left and turn the camera around to locate a CROWN
above the left beam. Just use the triple jump to jump from where you are to
reach it and land on the beam below (if you fall just start over, no big deal).
Then go right and pull the handle to start the battery and deactivate the force
field.


You can now go through the door in the previous room so head through the
passageway to reach the next room. Before doing anything, climb up the blocks
on the left wall of the room to find a CHEST at the top. Then jump on the 
blocks to the right of this chest and look at the wall here; it looks 
suspicious. Smash it to reveal a hidden room where you'll find a CHEST and a
CROWN. Leave, then press the button in the center of the room to raise the 
floor. Look around the raised part of the floor to find another switch; hit it 
then look around for another button on the other side, and keep on doing that 
until two handles appear on the raised part behind. Pull them and two tubes 
will lower. Go into the right one to obtain a CROWN. Then pull the handles at 
the top to switch the tubes.


Go in any of the two to reach the other side of the room where you'll need to
fight off more enemies. Destroy them, then hit the button and battle more
robots. Then follow the new path until you are back outside. After the
cutscene, you will find yourself back in control of Sonic and Tails. From where
you start, turn around and look behind you on the wall to find a closed sewers
gate. Break through it to reveal a hidden room. Inside is a CHEST and a CROWN.
Then follow the path to the next room.


You'll get a new power which lets you surf over water. Just run straight ahead
to cross the water and on your way you'll collect a CROWN. In the next room,
climb up the platforms to the right and get the CHEST at the top. Then climb to
the left of the room and get the other CHEST. Use Sonic to spin dash on the
blue sphere to open the gate. Now you can surf on the water ahead and reach the
next room. On your way, you'll collect another CROWN over the water.


When you reach the following room, climb to the right side of the room and use
Sonic to spin dash on the blue sphere to lower a ledge with a bounce pad. Go to
the left side and use that spring to go up. Spin dash on the sphere here to
open the gate. Get back down and cross the water again. You'll collect yet
another CROWN while on the water before reaching an outside area. Open the
CHEST ahead, then at the end of the path, don't jump on the spring just yet;
first break the blocks on the left to reveal a CROWN. Then jump on the spring
and use the energy beam to cross over to the next part.


After the cutscene, you'll be back with Amy and Knuckles. In the first room,
use Amy to jump on the beam to the right. Then jump to the left to collect the
CHEST. Break the X on the floor to fall back on a beam below, then jump from
pole to pole to collect a CROWN. After you land down, break the X on the wall
to the left, then the next X to find a CHEST. Now go around to the right, use
the spring to go up, break the X on the left, then go left again, break the X
in the wall to find a CROWN behind, then go left again to the edge of the
structure to find a CHEST.


Now get up to the very top of the area and you'll need to pull some handles
around the room to activate the stations. Just go around to each of the pillars
and pull the handles until they are all activated to collect the Crystal. You
will then switch over to Sonic battling Shadow for some reason. Just avoid his
attacks and attack when he is open. After three rounds, he will be defeated and
you will be brought to the next level.



Collectibles for later: (after you have spoken to Sticks at Bygone Island)

SHINIES

1. In the forest right after the speed section at the start, just before you 
enter the research facility, the trail is on the left, in the grass.

2. The trail is in the room right after the one with the tile puzzle where you 
have to deactivate some force fields.

3. When you are switched over to Sonic and Tails for the first time, the trail
is in the second room of the sewers (just before the water speed section).

4. This trail is in the second room where you have to open the door to the 
water speed section with Tails and Sonic by spin dashing on the blue sphere.


Now you'll need to help Tails. Break the machine right in front of you, then
pull the handle. Tails will then activate some switches so you can cross using
the energy beam. Destroy the machines here, then pull the handle and press the
button to clear the way for Tails. Then spin dash up the ramp that Tails set up
for you. Defeat the enemies above, then break the machine and pull the handle
to free Tails. Go right and you'll find a path blocked by a barrier. Before
opening that barrier however, look to the right of the path and you'll see an
area below.


Drop down there and get the CHEST. Then jump on the spring close by and the
tube will bring you on a gear with a button. Press the button to lower another
gear. Hit the button on that one to go up, then jump on the gears and hit the
button on the side of the last gear to make a ledge appear. Jump there and use
the spring to collect a CROWN and take the tube to the other side. Jump on the
gear to the right and pull the handle to open a door. Enter the corridor and
jump inside the tube on the right. You'll be taken to a small room with lots of
little robots. Destroy all of them and a CROWN will appear. Then jump out of
this room to return in front of the barrier blocking your way.


Using Tails, send a buddy bot inside the tunnel to the right to deactivate the
barrier. Send another bot inside the gear ahead, then go down to the right and
press the button. Fly to the other platform below and hit the next button to
make more gears appear. Collect the CROWN on one of them, then head back up and
use the spring and the tube to reach an area on the other side. Get the CHEST
on your left, then use either Tails or Sonic to reach the top. Follow the
passageway to the next room and watch the cutscene.


Afterwards, destroy all the robots to open the door to the right. You'll be in
a small room with some conveyor belts. Jump over to the second conveyor belt.
Walk to the left wall and double jump to reach the alcove above. Destroy the
machines to reveal a secret area. Head in and you'll find the turtle for the
side quest back in Cliff's excavation site. Get your reward from him, then get
the CHEST in the corner before leaving this area. Back in the alcove above the
conveyor belts, use Tails to fly across to the opposite side of the room to
another alcove with a CROWN. You can't see it because of the camera, but just
fly straight across.


Then get to the other side of the conveyor belts and you'll trigger an alarm.
Defeat the enemies, then step on the tiles. Send a buddy bot into the hole to
deactivate the barrier. Defeat more annoying robots, then step on the tiles
again. More enemies will appear. Defeat them again, then step on the tiles
again, avoiding the lasers. Then send a bot into the hole to activate the zip
line in the previous room. Go back there and you'll face more robots. Destroy
them, then finally use the zip line to reach a new room.


After the cutscene, go right and get the CHEST. Use the springs to go up and
destroy the robots. Pull the handle on the right to uncover the left path. Go
back down and take the left path. Jump on the springs, then follow the path to
the some speed boosts and springs at the end. Follow the catwalks, then you'll
jump on some conveyor belts. Collect a CROWN on the left one and another CROWN
on the right one. Then you'll need to blast off two power sources. Destroy one
in the right wall and the other can be destroyed by sending a bot into the
tunnel on the right.


Now you can go into the path to the left. It splits around in circle; go right
(jump over the speed boosts, don't step on them) and you'll see a conveyor belt
to the right. Fly to it and follow it to find a hidden secret room with a
CHEST. Leave this area and then go left and upwards. You'll face more enemies;
defeat them, then a stronger robot will come out. Destroy it as well to open
the door to the right. Use the zip line to reach a higher area. Break all the
crates and stuff here to reveal a warp pad in the corner. Go in to reach a
secret room with a CROWN.


Then walk on the conveyor belt and jump over the lasers to reach some tubes. In
the next part, just make your way across the obstacles and break the floor to
pass under the barriers at the top. Then collect the CROWN in the middle. Use
the zip line to get to the next area and destroy the robots to deactivate the
barrier blocking your path. Follow the path and avoid the lasers. Collect the
CROWN above the path by jumping on the spring below. Keep following the path,
go left on the conveyor belt, but don't jump on the sping at the end. Instead,
jump down in the gap on the left to find another CROWN, then use the sping to
go up and get the CHEST on the left.


Go right on the conveyor belt and use Tails to fly to the left to reach the 
CROWN above the chest. In the middle of the conveyor belt, ground pound the 
panel to reach another CROWN below, then go back up and head right. Send a bot
into the tunnel to deactivate the barrier and continue right to find a CHEST. 
Then slam the ground to go down and head left. Break the walls and then slam 
the ground again to go down. Head right onto the conveyor belt at the end, then
jump on the second one above, but drop off it right after and fly to the left 
to get the CHEST on the ledge you just passed by. Go up to the third conveyor 
belt and fly to the right to get another CHEST on the ledge to the right of the
second conveyor belt. Then keep going up and use the zip line at the end.


Hit the button in the middle of the next platform, then head up the spring to a
speed section with zip lines and the like, which will take you to the very top
of the room, where you'll face off several enemies. Defeat them all, then
you'll be taken to a new side-scrolling section. Just make your way through it
using either Tails or Sonic, avoid the obstacles until you reach the elevator,
which will fall down. Work your way to the top using the bounce pads and
finally you will be back at Cliff's excavation site.



Collectibles for later: (after you have spoken to Sticks at Bygone Island)

SHINIES

1. At the beginning of the level, after rescuing Tails, you'll have to send a
Buddy Bot in the hole to open the force field ahead. Instead, drop down on a
ledge to the right of this area to find a chest and a trail of footprints.

2. In the large machine room with the conveyor belts, the walkways with thin
see-through fences and various contraptions, at some point you'll need to hit
two power sources to deactivate the lasers blocking the path. The trail is
just beyond that path, if you go left a bit.

3. Shortly after the shiny mentioned above, you'll then go up a vent with Tails
or ramp with Sonic, and there are more footprints on the path above, where you
fight all the robot enemies.

4. This one is once again in the same room as mentioned above, but near the top
of the room. It's after a side-scrolling section, you'll use a zip line and 
land near a checkpoint and a green button. The footprints are right there.


You now have the map, so you can access it from the menu and travel back to
previous levels. You can also view your objectives and the exclamation mark on
the map tells you where to head next. First, you now have access to a new
sidequest near the big quarry. Speak with the cook and he will ask you to get
his ingredients back. Simply head for the shore nearby and defeat the three
waves of enemies to get the ingredients back. Then return to him to get the
reward. Now your next objective is located in the area to the left of the first
small quarry where you pressed some buttons to cross. There is a camp site you
can build here if you spend some robot parts.


Then approach the gate to open it. Head up the elevator to reach a new area and
speak with the sailor, who will ask you to find parts for his boat. Head over
to the area to the right and climb up the cliff. Whenever you find an area with
purple ground a part will be here. Destroy all the enemies that come out of the
wall to obtain the first piece for the boat. Then use the energy beam on the
blue orb to the right and jump on the springs until you reach a higher ledge
above. Fight off more enemies here to obtain the second piece. Now head over to
the kind of windmills at the end of the area and climb on top of the second
one. Use the springs to reach a small island and defeat the enemies here to
obtain the last piece. Return to the sailor with the pieces and hop into the
boat to reach the next level.


Collectibles you can get now:


CHESTS

12. At the right of the start of the hub world, past the excavation site with
the crane, there's a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to run
across the water and head over to the structure in the middle of the lake. Jump
on the third pillar to find a chest.

13. After crossing the bridge with the speed boosts at the beginning of the hub
world, go left to find a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to
cross the water and reach the piece of land on the other side. Break the wooden
planks blocking the two handles here and pull them to raise two platforms. Use
them to cross and find a chest.

14. In the area where you help the sailor retrieve the pieces for the boat,
there is a chest where you get the second piece (high ledge near entrance).

15. Still in the same area with the sailor, climb up the red wall with Knuckles
to the right of the first "windmill" to find a chest.

16. Also in the area with the sailor, there is a chest on the small island
where you got the third piece for the boat (use the spring on top of the second
windmill-thing).


CROWNS

11. At the right of the start of the hub world, past the excavation site with
the crane, there's a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to run
across the water and check near where the watermill is to find a crown on a
wooden beam.

12. In the same spot as mentioned above, but head over to the structure in the
middle of the lake to find a crown on the second pillar.

13. After crossing the bridge with the speed boosts at the beginning of the hub
world, go left to find a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to
run over the water and check somewhere to the left of the waterfalls, behind a
cliff to find a crown on the water.

14. In the same spot as mentioned above, but head over to the piece of land on
the other side of the water and jump on the cliff to the left to find a crown.


This level is just a short shooting stage where you need to destroy cannons in
the water. Shoot them all to advance between the areas until you reach the end
where you will be taken to the next level. There are no collectibles here.


You will start this level on a small island. Before taking the speed ramp, look
on the right side of it to find a chest underneath a plant. Then break the
crate nearby to reveal a bounce pad. Jump on it, then jump on the ones on top
of the tree, then you'll land on another one with some rings above the island.
Stay on it and turn the camera around. There are two things to get from here.
First, locate the CROWN above the tree to the right. Use Tails to fly to it.
Then go back to that same spring above the three and turn the camera around to
locate another CROWN above the water to the left side this time, somewhere up
in the air between a rock in the water and the speed track. This one is
trickier to get. Using Tails, fly to the rock in the water and land on the
spring to collect the crown. Then you'll fall back on the speed track.


As soon as you fall on the speed track, stick to the right side and prepare to
jump to hit the switch close by. Try to slow down so you don't miss it. This
will change the path ahead, and you will be able to collect  a CROWN on this
new path. Then you'll jump really high on some springs and head down a steep
watery pathway. Just a little after this part, after going through some speed
ramps, prepare to jump onto a switch again to open a new path. This is one is
pretty tough to get, you need to jump as soon as you land on the path. It will
take you to some ruins with springs and a CROWN. Then use the zip line and run
through the rest of the path. At the very end of the track you'll collect a
CROWN (not missable).


Then you'll land in the jungle. Walk ahead a little bit, just before the trail
of rings, turn around and look behind the root on the left of the path to find
a CHEST. Then follow the path to a large quarry. Climb up the cliff to the left
and then double jump to the ledge above. Break the boulder in the wall to
reveal a CHEST in the alcove. Then drop down to the area below and defeat the
enemies. You'll see a track on the ground. Check where the tracks is coming 
from in the nearby wall. There's a hidden room behind the stuff blocking the 
wall where the track starts. Smash it to reveal the entrance and go in to find 
a CHEST. Then leave and pull the handles to drop a mine cart. Hit the mine cart
to move it, then jump on it to jump over the fence. Defeat the enemies here, 
then look on the left for a CHEST behind some boulders. Pull the handle to open
the fence, then hit the mine cart again to move it forward.


Jump on it to reach the platform above. You can take two different paths here
with Sonic or Knuckles. They both have stuff to collect. Start with Knuckles
and climb up the right wall. Then go left and climb the wall, then the ceiling.
Jump to the right and smash the pipe or whatever it is to reveal a CROWN
underneath. Then climb the wall to the right and jump over the flames. Destroy
the boulder in the back wall in the corner to reveal a CHEST. Then use the
energy beam to cross. Climb up the wall and smash the pipes to collect the
CROWN in the top-right corner. That's it for Knuckles so now switch to Sonic.


Spin dash up the ramp to the left to reach an area with a flaming floor. Go
right and jump across the moving platform. Break the boulder in the left wall
to reveal a ramp. Spin dash up the ramp to reach an area below the flaming
floor. Smash the two tanks here to stop the flames. Then use the spring to go
up and collect the CROWN and also the CHEST on the left. Now go right again
across the moving platform and break the other boulder to reveal a bounce pad.
Use it to get into the tube and reach the other side of the area.


Press the green button here to lower the bridge and pull the handles from the
other side of the bridge to pull it towards you. Now you can jump on the mine
cart to collect that CROWN above. Then hit the mine cart to move it against the
wall and jump on it to reach the area above. Destroy the robots here, then pull
the handles on the big robot to wake it up. Grab the small flying enemies with
the energy beam and throw them at the robot's legs. After you have damaged it
enough, it will stop and you'll be able to jump down the hole below it.


You'll get attacked by some robots down there; defeat them all and a hole will
appear in the wall. Go into the tunnel and walk to the right a bit. You'll see
through a gap in the wall an area above with red walls and rings (you might
have to move the camera up in the tunnel to see it). Break the boulder below
that gap to reveal a spring leading inside this room. Use Sonic or Knuckles to
get to the top of the room and collect the CROWN. Also smash the wall on the
right of the speed ramp to reveal another CHEST. Then return to the tunnel and 
you'll hit a dead-end. Use Knuckles to smash through the boulders.


Switch to Sonic and spin dash up the ramp to the left to find a CHEST. Then go
right and jump on the ledge. Hit the button to freeze the lava below, then jump
inside the pipe to the right to be brought to a CHEST. Get back in the pipe and
then cross the frozen lava. You'll see a "1" on the wall here. Just to the
right of the "1", ground pound the X on the floor to find a CHEST below. Then
climb on the ceiling to the right using Knuckles and use the spring on the
other side to go up and find a CROWN at the end of the path here. Switch to
Sonic and come back to this very same spot you're at right now. Jump on the
spring you used to go up, but this time it will take you into a loop, after
which you should double jump to get the CHEST above.


Now go back all the way left to the "1" from earlier and drop down in the gap
just to the left of it. Then go left again and slam through the weak part of
the floor. Collect the CROWN above the flames to the right. Keep going left and
up the ramp. Hit the button here to freeze the lava below. Go down to collect
the CROWN. Then jump down to the left all the way to the bottom floor. Pull the
handle on the left to pull out a mine cart. Jump on it to reach the CHEST on
the ledge above. Then cross the conveyor belt to the right and hit the button.
Go right and jump on the ledge above to get the CHEST, then double jump to the
small passage up on the right to find a CROWN. Then jump back down left where
the "3" is on the wall and ground pound the floor here to break it. Follow the
path to the left to find another CROWN. Go back up and head right. Jump on the
spring here with Knuckles to climb on the ceiling above. Smash the panel to the
right and jump down to the right, where you will find a CHEST behind the
breakable wall.


Now head back all the way up and use the speed boost on the right to go through
a very short speed section. When you get to the end, before falling down, grab
the zip wires above with the energy beam and collect the CROWN on the right.
(It's very important you take the speed boost from the upper part of the side-
scrolling section if you want to get this crown). Then drop down and destroy 
all the robot enemies here, then pull the handles on the wall to open the gate.
Jump on the springs to reach the area above, where you'll find a CHEST on the 
left and another CHEST on the right behind some boulders. Then press the button
to make a new path appear. Take that path to reach an area where you'll face 
several enemies. Destroy them all, then a stronger robot will come out. Defeat 
it, then pull the handle in the wall to reveal a bounce pad. Jump up to the 
area above, then drop down to the left. Use Knuckles to climb up the wall and 
break the rocks blocking the gears, then use Sonic and spin dash on the blue 
sphere to close the lid.


Head back up and take the new path on the right to reach the next area. Start
by going right with Knuckles and climb up the wall. Jump over the flames and
use the spring to go up and collect a CROWN. Then switch to Sonic and go right,
and home-attack (Jump + X) the small blue spheres to cross the flames. You'll
find a CHEST on the other side. Then go left and follow the path down on the
right. Slam the X panel on the floor here to break through and use the zip line
down there to reach a secret room with a CROWN and a CHEST. Head back and go
back up. Continue right across the stopped wheel and press the button.


Then jump to the ledge on the left and hit the button here to make the wheel
start turning. Go back down and use the energy beam to cross over to the right.
Jump on the spring to go up, then jump through the wheel to reach the other
side which will take you to a speed track leading to the next area. Here you'll
face off more robots again. Defeat them, then pull the handles on the wall to
open the gate and go in. Check the floor for a green button under some wooden
planks; slam it to reveal a speed ramp to the right of the gate. Spin dash up
that ramp to reach the top where a CROWN lies. Then use Knuckles to climb up
the wall and find another CROWN to the left. Now head back inside the tunnel to
save Amy and Tails by destroying the two red buttons on each side of the gate.


Run through the following speed section, then you'll need to climb up using
springs, then run through the track some more and at the very end you'll grab a
CROWN on the way. Now you'll need to defeat the Driller Worm. Start by avoiding
its attacks, then you will see it starting to inhale. While it is doing that,
grab the flying robots with the energy beam and throw them into the worm's
mouth. Throw a bunch of them at it until Sonic prompts you to pull him down
with the energy beam. Once it is down, attack its eye as much as you can. Then
repeat the same process again, but the worm will have more attacks, and you
will need to throw the flying robots on the bouncing pad for them to reach its
mouth. Then bring him down and attack its eye again. Now repeat the same
process one more time, but this time there are several bouncing pads that you
need to throw the robots at to reach the worm, depending on where its mouth is.
Collect the Crystal after you have defeated the worm.



Collectibles for later: (after you have spoken to Sticks at Bygone Island)

SHINIES

1. As soon as you leave the jungle and land at the quarry, you'll see the
footprints on the ground right where you start this area.

2. Also in the quarry, in the last part where you need to push the cart to
the end of the track, there's a trail on the left side, if you went through
the left tube with Sonic, you'll land right next to it.

3. When you need to close a lid at some point, and you'll smash some boulders
stuck in the gears, the trail is in the area to the right just above the 
gears, next to where you close the lid over the lava.



Back in the hub world, you can now complete a new sidequest. Speak with the
nurse near where your new objective is and she will ask you to find four plants
for her medecine. The first one is in the area just above her, where the mine
carts are. Hit the closest mine cart to make it ram into the wall and break the
wooden barrier blocking the way into a small cave where the first plant lies.
For the second one, head to the right of the big gate near the nurse (the gate
you're supposed to open now) and head into the water with Sonic or Tails. Run
to the large structure in the middle of the lake and defeat all the enemies
here. Then jump on the pillars and grab the second plant on the farthest
pillar.


Then head back to the land and go to the big bridge that leads back to the
entrance of the hub world. To the right of the bridge (or left if you're coming
from the entrance after crossing it), go into the water and run across to the
land on the opposite  side of the lake. Break the wooden planks blocking the
two handles on the ground, then pull them to raise platforms. Cross these
platforms to find the third plant on the other side. Now go back to the
entrance of the hub world where the turtle guy is and go to the area just past
the one where the crane is, it's a small area with a lot of boulders. Just
climb to the top alcove and break the boulders to find the last plant. Then
speak with the nurse to receive your reward.


Now you can unlock the big gate close by to reveal a new path. This speed
section will take you to a watermill. From here, take the other speed section
on the left to reach the area where Cliff is waiting for you with the plane. It
will take you to the second hub world of the game.


Collectibles you can get now:


CHESTS

17. Right after the speed section that starts near where the nurse is, you'll
land at a watermill. Look on the left of the waterwheel  (behind the little
fence) to find a chest hidden behind some barrels.

18. When you get to the large structure in the middle of the water after the
speed section at the watermill (where Cliff was waiting with the plane), climb
to the top of the wooden structure and walk past the green button and the
spring. Use Tails to fly from the edge of the structure to the archway just
ahead where a chest is.

19. To the left of the large structure mentioned above, there are some ruins in
the water. Use Tails or Sonic to reach them and jump on the lower archways so
you can climb up. Use the springs to jump higher on them and check all the
pillars. On one of them is chest.

20. On the same ruins as mentioned above, there is another chest on a pillar,
but this one is little trickier to find. Go on top of the highest pillar which
is close to the structure where Cliff was waiting with the plane. You can see
close to the rockface another pillar which appears too far to reach. Double
jump and glide over to it with Tails to find the chest.


CROWNS

15. As soon as you get on the speed section near where the nurse is, jump on
the first spring you see, then you'll glide over four springs. If you don't do
it anything, you'll just fly past. What you must do is press Y as you pass over
the springs to slam them and then you'll collect a crown.

16. Exact same as above, but the spring will be a little bit after the start,
after you go through a loop. Stay on the left side, take the spring, then slam
the springs above to bounce on them and collect the crown.

17. Also on the same speed track as mentioned above, but right before you get
off it at the end. You can't really miss this crown.

18. After the speed section mentioned above, you'll land at a watermill. Here
you can take a second speed track. Near the beginning of this track, you'll be
able to grab a zip line at some point. Use the energy beam on it and it will
take you to a crown.

19. At the very end of the speed section mentioned above, you'll jump into a
crown. You can't miss that one.

20. From the watermill after the speed track near the nurse, go into the water
with Sonic or Tails. Take the left way to reach a pat of the water with mine
carts passing by. One of them has a crown on the mine cart.

21. Same area as above, another crown over a mine cart, just a little further
ahead.

22. From the watermill after the speed track near the nurse, go into the water
with Sonic or Tails. Take the right way this time and you'll see a crown in
plain view in the middle of the water.

23. Same area as above, just a little further ahead, a crown rests over the
water between some moving wooden beams.

24. When you get to the large structure in the middle of the water after the
speed section at the watermill (where Cliff was waiting with the plane), climb
to the top of the wooden structure and walk past the green button and the
spring. Use Tails to fly from the edge of the structure to the archway just
ahead where a chest is. There is a crown to the right at the end of the
archway.

25. At the large structure mentioned above, climb to the top of the woonden
scaffholdings and press the green button to activate a bounce pad. Use it to
reach another speed section. A little after the beginning of the track, after
going through a loop, you'll see a zip line. Use the energy beam on it, then
you'll land on another track. Jump to hit the switch here to change the path
and you'll get a crown on the next zip line.

26. You'll need to re-do the speed section mentioned above from the start to
get this one, as it requires a different path on the same track. A little after
the beginning, after the loop and the springs, you'll jump up and see the zip
line. Don't take it. Instead let yourself fall down. You'll be in an area with
two moving wheels. Use the springs to jump up and grab the crown in the
top-right corner.

27. At the very end of the speed section mentioned above, you'll collect this
crown as you land back at the watermill. You can't miss it.



SHINIES (after you have talked to Sticks at Bygone Island)

1. There's a trail on the cliffs right where you first started the hub world.

2. From the entrance of the hub world, go right past the crane to an area with
a lot of boulders. There's a trail on the ground here.

3. From the entrance of the hub world, go left through the gate near where
the turtle guy is, and jump up the springs to reach the area above (where the
Abandoned Reseach Facility level starts). Look on the left side to find a
trail of footprints near the pine tree.

4. After crossing the bridge with the speed boosts at the beginning of the hub
world, go left to find a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to
run over the water and head for the land on the other side. Check the ground
on the right side to find a trail.

5. To the left of the first small quarry where you pressed the three buttons to
cross, go through the gate here (which leads to the area where the sailor is)
and look to the right of the elevator for a trail on the ground. There are
rings forming a square around the location of the X.

6. In the area where the sailor is, follow the shore to the left from where
his house is and at the very end of the area is a trail.

7. Also in the area with the sailor, this trail is on the little island where
you had found the third piece for the boat previously.

8. There is a trail on the cliff right above the cook's tent.

9. In the mine area, follow the trail of rings to the left of where the
breakable wall leading to the secret room is and at the end of the path
you'll emerge back outside of a ledge. There are footprints here.

10. Also in the mine area, in the secret room where you found the very first
crystal, there is a trail right next to where the crystal was.



From the beach, enter the village through the passage to the left and walk to
the end. Go left to meet with the mayor. After his speech, walk up to the
fountain at the back and go right. You'll meet Sticks who will introduce you to
Shinies, new collectibles. If you press the button on the gamepad to reveal
trails on the ground, you can see an X and get a Shiny if you ground pound it.
I will cover those in another section. Enter the doorway where Sticks was
standing to enter a new area and speak with the sailor on the left. He will ask
you to find his brother.


We'll do that later. For now, use the springs close by to go up and walk
northwest to the large ruined structure, which is our new objective. Here
you'll need to use Tails to get to the top and press a button to unlock the
gate. Jump on the springs to the right, then go right and press the button to
activate the vent. Use it to get to the springs, then fly to the next button
and press it. Fly to the next vent in the middle of the area, then go up and
fly to the area above the gate. Press the button here to open the gate and go
through.



Collectibles you can get now:


CHESTS

1. At the leftmost tip of the beach area (left from where you start) behind
a big boulder.

2. At the leftmost tip of the beach area, use the spring to climb up the cliff
above and you'll find a chest at the end of the ledge.

3. Go to the right part of the beach area where the structure (defense system)
is and look in the grass close to the wall surrounding the village, there is
a chest behind a boulder there (near a speed boost).

4. In the right part of the beach area, there are some pillars over the
water with moving platforms which lead to a structure (that later becomes
the Ocean Purification Plant level). Jump to the last pillar before the
structure to find a chest (cross by home-attacking the blue orbs with Sonic).

5. In the right part of the beach area, cross the water with Tails or Sonic
to reach the small piece of land with a structure (defense system). Behind
the structure is a chest.

6. Right at the entrance of the first part of the village, spend some robot
parts to repair the area to the left. Then use the spring to go up and head
right until you pass through the second wooden wheel. Jump down and look on
the left for a chest.

7. In the very same area as mentioned above, after the part with the second
wooden wheel, you'll then reach a part with a wooden panel going up and
down. Jump on the spring here while the panel is down, then jump to the
left. There's a chest on the platform above.

8. In the first part of the village, spend robot parts at the second
repair station to rebuild the well (it's close to a small fountain on
the left wall). Then jump inside the well to find a crown and a chest.

9. In the second part of the village (the left one), at the left of the
entrance is a speed ramp. Use Sonic to go up, then go right by home-attacking
the blue orbs and use the springs at the end. Jump over the platforms to the
left to reach a chest.

10. At the end of the second part of the village, on the cliff behind the 
fountain. It's beyond the small wooden footbridge and next to a little hut.

11. Also near the foutain in the second part of the village, where you can
spend some robot parts to rebuild a house here, climb on the pink beam
here with Amy and go right. Before the spring, jump to climb on the beam
above and jump to the left. Jump on the springs here to reach a higher
beam and hit the green button on the wall. You'll open up a ledge where
you'll find a chest sitting atop the village.

12. Same spot as mentioned above, but after getting on the pink beam,
go right and jump on the spring (instead of jumping up). Continue all the
way to the right, jump on the pole, then you'll reach the rooftop of a
house next to the entrance gate. There's a chest here.

13. After getting the chest mentioned above, jump on the rooftop to the
left, in the back (you'll need to go around the chest, get behind the pipe,
then go left and jump north, otherwise if you just try to go left Amy will
get stuck in side-scrolling 2D lane and you won't be able to jump there).
Smash down the fake wall in the back here to reveal a chest.

14. In the northwest part of the island (where the sailor looking for his
brother is), go up the spring at the start, then jump on the ledge to the
right to find a chest.

15. From the chest mentioned above, go north and east to a seemingly empty
area. At the very back of this area, up the cliffs, jump on the spring to 
reach the ledge above where a chest awaits.

16. In the ruined structure in the northwest part of the island (where you
open the gate to access the Crater Lake level), use Amy to climb up the
beams and at the top-right corner of her section you'll find a chest.

17. Same area as mentioned above, climb the red walls as Knuckles and at
the very top of the wall you'll find a chest.

18. Same area as mentioned above, use Sonic to spin dash up the ramp and
climb up. When you are on the moving pillar, go right and at the end of
the path you'll find a chest above.

19. Same area as mentioned above, use Tails to fly all the way up to the
green button that you need to press to open Crater Lake. There's a chest
at the left in this area.




CROWNS

1. Right where you start on the beach, there is an archway above you next to
the checkpoint. Use Amy to jump on top and get the crown.

2. At the leftmost tip of the beach area, use the spring to climb up the cliff
above and spend robot parts to repair the hut here. The crown is inside.

3. To the right of where you start on the beach, there's a rock with a 
spring on it. Jump on it and then use Tails or Amy to jump on the other
spring in the nearby tree. The springs will take you to a crown.

4. In the right part of the beach area, there are some pillars over the
water with moving platforms which lead to a structure (that later becomes
the Ocean Purification Plant level). Jump to the first pillar and look
underneath it; there is a lower ledge with a crown.

5. Right at the entrance of the first part of the village, spend some robot
parts to repair the area to the left. Then use the spring to go up and head
right until you see a wooden wheel. Check under the wheel, a little to the
right (under the steel wall) to find a hidden crown.

6. In the very same area as mentioned above, after the part with the second
wooden wheel, you'll then reach a part with a wooden panel going up and
down. Jump on the spring here while the panel is down, then jump on the
platforms to the right to reach a crown.

7. Still in the same area as mentioned above, drop down in the gap on the 
left, but stay on the wooden ledge here. Smash the wall to your right to
reveal a path underneath. It will take you to a crown.

8. In the first part of the village, spend robot parts at the second
repair station to rebuild the well (it's close to a small fountain on
the left wall). Then jump inside the well to find a crown and a chest.

9. In the second part of the village (the left one), at the right of the
entrance is a crown behind some wooden planks. Smash them to collect it.

10. In the second part of the village, close to where Sticks is, (where
the green lush area starts) there's a pink beam that leads up to a spring 
and a crown. Use Amy to get up there.

11. In the northwest part of the island (where the sailor looking for his
brother is), jump on the springs at the start, then go north and press the 
green button on the ground. Three pillars will start going up and down in 
motion. Jump on the right one and then jump on the cliff to the right.
There is a breakable wall up here with a crown inside.

12. Same area, but jump on the south pillar, then jump on the other cliff
close by. Then use the energy beam to cross to the other ledge. Then cross 
again to reach the area on the other side. Press the button here to make 
the pillar go up and jump on it to reach the crown above.

13. Exact same area as mentioned above, spend some robot parts to rebuild
the hut here and then look inside to find a crown.

14. In the ruined structure in the northwest part of the island (where you
open the gate to access the Crater Lake level), use Amy to climb up the
beams and in the top-left corner of her section, jump on the pole to reach
a crown up in the air.

15. Same area as mentioned above, climb the red walls as Knuckles and as
you climb up, there will be a crown at the top of the middle section.


16. Same area as mentioned above, use Sonic to spin dash up the ramp and
climb up. When you are on the moving pillar, jump to the left to find
a crown at the end of the ledge.




SHINIES

1. Next to where you meet Sticks, in the grass area near the upgrade pillar.

2. From the starting point on the beach, go a bit left where the structure is
(the defense system) and go north up to the village's surrounding wall. Look
on the left, in the shadows of the trees, for a trail between where the wall
and the rockface meet.

3. At the leftmost tip of the beach area (left from where you start).

4. To the right of where you start on the beach, there is a big tower over
the water with stairs leading to it (later becomes the Sky Citadel level).
Before the last set of stairs, check the ground for footprints.

5. Go to the rightmost part of the beach area where the portal to access the
water-surfing is. Near this place is a little spot of grass with some trees
and a big boulder with a spring. Look at the base of this boulder to find
a trail in the grass between a tree and the big boulder.

6. In the right part of the beach area, cross the water with Tails or Sonic
to reach the small piece of land with a structure (defense system). Look
around the structure for footprints in the sand (under a rotating platform).

7. In the right part of the beach area, there are some pillars over the
water with moving platforms which lead to a structure (that later becomes
the Ocean Purification Plant level). Use Sonic to reach that structure
by jumping on the pillars and look at the north edge of it for a trail.

8. At the entrance of the first part of the village, look on the left where 
you can spend some robot parts to rebuild the area here to find a trail
under the wooden ramp. It goes up to the tree on the other side.

9. Just before the entrance to the second part of the village (the one to
the left of where the mayor is), check the ground for footprints near the
big tree. The trail starts to the left of the gateway and stops in the 
shadow of the house nearby. 

10. At the end of the second part of the village (the left one), look at the 
left of the fountain for a trail that stops in front of the house there.

11. Also at the end of the second part of the village, but on the cliff
behind the fountain. It's beyond the small wooden footbridge and left of a 
chest and a little hut.

12. In the northwest part of the island (where the sailor looking for his
brother is), jump on the springs at the start, then go north and press the 
green button on the ground. Three pillars will start going up and down in 
motion. Use Amy to jump on them and reach the cliff nearby. Then use the 
energy beam to cross to the other cliff. Then cross again to reach the area 
on the other side. Look around this area, on the lower ledge, to find a
trail of footprints on the right side.

13. In the ruined structure in the northwest part of the island (where you
open the gate to access the Crater Lake level), check on the right immediatly
as you enter the structure to find footprints on the ground.



At the very beginning of the speed section, use the zip line to get a CROWN.
Then run through the rest of the section and just before the end you will
collect another CROWN then fall back on the ground. Switch to Knuckles and
climb up the wall to the right to find a CHEST at the top. Then use Sonic or
Tails to go into the water and run to the land across the water to the left.
Here you'll find the brother of the sailor who gave you the side quest earlier.
Speak with him and he will ask for your help. Climb to the top of his hut to
find a CHEST. Then look on the grass just below his hut to see a trail. Find
the hidden X and ground pound it to find a SHINY.


Now get in the boat at the dock and you'll need to find and blow up all nine
cannons on the water. Just look everywhere to destroy them, then you'll
complete this sidequest. You'll just have to go back and talk to the sailor to
collect the reward later. Now go back to the water and get on the metal
walkways in the center. You'll meet with two old hags who will tell you where
the Crystal is. Take the right path and ground pound the floor in front of the
house to destroy it. Underneath are some springs that will send you flying up.
Land on the roof of the house to find a CHEST. Then pull the handle to the
right of the house to extend the bridge and cross the new walkway. Jump on top
of the hut here to find a CROWN.


Then pull the handles to the left of the house to lower the bridge and cross.
Fight off all the enemies here to lower another bridge. Grab the CROWN and
cross the bridge. Before climbing up the cliff here, look on the ground to the
left to spot a trail. Find the hidden X and stomp it to reveal a SHINY. Now you
can climb up the cliff with the retracting platforms. Use Sonic and once you
reach the top, home-attack the blue spheres on the left to head up. Hit the
button here, then spin dash on the ramp and stomp the ground on the left to
find a CROWN.


Go back down and go right. Press the button, then double jump on the platform
above and jump to the left to reach the CHEST on the ledge. Go right again and
hit the button to move the wall. Also destroy the rock wall just here where the
CHEST is below so you can get to it. Then press the two buttons on the blocks
to the right and they will start moving. Wait for the third one and press it.
Now you can go collect the CROWN in the alcove to the left. Head back right and
smash the fake wall at the right of the three moving platforms you activated.
Drop down and walk south towards the screen, to the edge of the cliff. Go left
and smash the fake wall in the southwest corner to find a CHEST (hard to see,
but it's there). Then go right and smash the fake wall in the southeast corner
to find another well-hidden CHEST.


Head back up and use the zip line above to enter a cave. Go straight and jump
on the cliffs ahead. To the right is a CHEST behind some rocks. There's another
CHEST to the left on a little isle. Then smash the big rock on the middle cliff
to reveal a spring. Use it to go up and defeat the flying robots here. Look on
the left on the platforms with the rings to see a trail. Find the hidden X and
stomp it to obtain a SHINY. Then jump on the other platforms and destroy the
two rocks at the end to reveal two buttons. Press them to make a bounce pad
appear. Use the zip line above it to reach the next area.


Use Sonic or Knuckles to climb to the right. Fight off the enemies here, then
use the spring to the left to reach a ledge above. Follow the ledge to the end
to find a CROWN. Then return to the spring. Now the three next collectibles are
kind of weird because there is no proper way to collect them, so it's very hard
to describe. In the area you are in now, go all the way to the right, to the
edge of the "tunnel"  where you can see the zip line passing here. If you move
the camera around, you can see to your right a platform a little higher on the
wall. Using Amy, triple jump to reach it. It's a little hard, but it's do-able.
Then go stand on the opposite side of the platform and move the camera down to
the left. Move it until you see a CHEST on a ledge below, to the left. Jump
down to it. Then stand on the chest and triple jump to the other platform even
higher on the left above. It's hard to grab the ledge so keep trying until you
get it. Here, look for a trail and find the hidden X to get a SHINY. The only
other way I found to get up there is to stand on one of the boulders in the
area below (if you haven't destroyed them) and triple jump up there with Amy.
You can also get the chest that way from there.


Then go back to the exact same spot you were at before triple jumping to the
higher platform (the end of the tunnel where the zip line goes). This time,
move the camera down to the right and look below until you spot a CROWN in an
alcove underneath where you are, a little to the left (close to the entrance
gate of the cave). Glide to it using Tails. This one is a little tough to find
too, so I made a video with the three hard-to-find collectibles if you can't
locate them.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zy37kT5DAyg


Now go back to the area just after the zip line, and use the energy beam to
cross using the orbs to the left. Use the spring to jump up, then double jump
while in the air to reach another spring that will send you on a platform with
a CHEST. After getting it, jump back where the spring was, don't go in the room
ahead yet. Start dropping off the cliffs below, where you can see several
little platforms. On the left, right at the base of the cliff where the chest
was, look for a trail on one of the platforms. Use the x-ray vision to spot it
and locate the hidden X. Stomp it to collect the SHINY.


Then head up into the room ahead at the top of the waterfall and climb up the
right side of the cave with Amy to find another CHEST. Drop down and pull the
handles in the middle to make some robots fall down. Destroy them, then pull
the handles again and the Crystal will fall. Collect it to return to Bygone
Island.


Return to the first part of the town and go all the way to the back and up the
first set of stairs. Then go right, and right again to find the next gate you
have to unlock. Open it and cross the farmlands. You'll watch a cutscene and be
taken to the next level.



Collectibles you can get now:


CHESTS

20. In the farmlands, there's a chest on a ledge right above the farmer's
northern field (the purple-red ground).

21. North of the farmlands, use the spring on the left to reach a little
house on a cliff above. There's a chest on the right.

22. At the end of the farmlands, cross the bridge to the right and break the
barrels on the left side to reveal a spring. Jump on it then use the energy
beam to cross over to a chest.



CROWNS

17. At the entrance of the farmlands, go left and climb up the red wall with
Knuckles. At the very top is a crown.

18. North of the farmlands, use the spring on the left to reach a little
house on a cliff above. Cross the footbridge here and spend some robot parts
to rebuild the hut. Inside it is a crown.

19. At the end of the farmlands, cross the bridge to the right and break the
barrels on the left side to reveal a spring. Jump on it then use the energy
beam to cross over to a chest. Follow the ledge to the right for a crown.



SHINIES

14. North of the farmlands, use the spring on the left to reach a little
house on a cliff above. Drop down on the ledge just below the house to find
a trail of footprints.

15. At the end of the farmlands, cross the bridge to the right and then check
the left side for some barrels hidding a spring. Next to the spring is a 
trail of footbridges.


The level starts with a speed section. At the very beginning, you'll see
scaffholdings with springs on them. Slow down and jump on the first one, then
the next until you reach the CROWN up in the air. Keep following the track
until you are propelled high into the air at some point, and you will see a zip
line above the roof. Don't use it, instead let yourself fall down and you will
crash through a wall. In the room here you'll see a CROWN on a ledge above. Use
the retracting platforms to reach it, then head for the exit in the opposite
corner. Then you'll bounce on some springs, grab the zip line ahead to collect
another CROWN. And right at the end of the track you'll get yet another CROWN
on the right just before falling into the water.


Just avoid Lyric's attacks while you run forward, then you will be switched
over to Amy and Knuckles. Run along the track and avoid Eggman's attacks, then
you will switch back to Sonic and Tails. Avoid the attacks again, and again,
until you reach the island. Head up and defeat all the enemies to open the
gate. Before going in, turn around and jump on the pillars to the right of the
area to find a CHEST. Then jump to the left of the area to find another CHEST.
There's also a trail right next to the chest, so locate the hidden X and stomp
it to get a SHINY.


Now you can go through the gate and the turtle will ask you to activate the
pillar in the middle of the area. There are four switches to press, and you'll
need to use the four characters to reach them. Start by going left just as you
enter and smash the boulders left of the entrance to find a CHEST. Then use
Sonic to spin dash up the ramp nearby and home-attack the blue orbs to reach
the springs. Then double jump to the top of the small waterfall to collect the
CROWN. Then keep going up and climb on the roof of the small house. Home-attack
the orbs to get to the very top and hit the first button here.


Now switch to Amy and head right from the entrance. Press the two green buttons
here, then climb up the nearby cliff. Cross using the beams and keep on
climbing to the very top. When you get to the windmill, you'll find a CROWN if
you time your jump well between each pole. Then hit the second button when you
reach the top. Then switch to Knuckles and go to the other side of the area.
Break the big boulders, then climb up the red wall and follow the path all the
way to a cliff. Climb up to the house at the top and check inside for a CHEST.
Then cross the bridge and check inside the other house for a CROWN. Then climb
the wall to reach the top and hit the third switch.


Switch to Tails and go to the left of where you climbed the wall with Knuckles.
Check the ground with the x-ray vision to see a trail in front of the house and
locate the hidden X. Stomp it to get a SHINY. Then climb on the metal ledge
with the moving vent and you'll see another trail on this ledge. Find the
hidden X and ground pound it to collect another SHINY. Then use the vent to fly
up and collect the CROWN up around the pillar, then hit the last button to
enter the next area.


After the cutscene, pull the handles on the boat to start it. The boat will
stop and you will get attacked by robots. Destroy them, then pull the handles
again to restart the boat. Do this again until you reach the other side. Climb
up and you'll see the destroyed village ahead. Before going in though, there
are a few things to collect around here first. Behind the platform you're
standing on is a ledge with a spring (you'll have to rotate the camera to see
it -- it's under the first wooden walkway). If you jump down there you'll find
a secret cave with a CHEST.


Then leave the secret cave and start going up the wooden walkways. Jump down to
the first hut over the water. There is a CHEST behind it. Go back to the
walkways and enter the destroyed village. Go right and destroy the big boulders
next to the burning hut to reveal a CHEST. Then walk to the edge of the area.
Use Sonic and home-attack the blue orbs to reach the springs. Then jump up and
home-attack the blue orbs above to reach a higher area. Destroy the boulders
here to find a CHEST.


Go back to the entrance of the village and go left this time. Use Amy to climb
up the beams on the wall and jump to the left for a CROWN. Then switch to Tails
and use the vent to fly up to the cliff in the middle. Get the CHEST here, and
also look for a trail and stomp the X to find a SHINY. Then fly to the fallen
windmill and collect the CROWN on its sail. Use the energy beam on the zip line
to be taken to the next area.


Climb up the structure and hit the pillars. Then take the spring to the second
level. Here, jump on the beam with the rings on the right, then jump to the
small ledge on the left and break the boulders to reveal a CHEST. Hit the
pillars on the left and collect the CROWN. Then use the springs to go up to the
third level and hit the two last pillars to open the door. Go right and collect
the CROWN above the spring. Then keep going right and get the CHEST here. Use
the zip line to reach the next area, where you'll need to hit the wall to smash
it down and reveal a cave.


Inside the cave, jump over the platforms to the left to find a CHEST. Go back
to the entrance and go right this time. Jump over the platforms and break the
boulders to find another CHEST. Also look for a trail here and find the hidden
X. Stomp it to collect a SHINY. Then go to the platform in the middle of the
cave and fight off the robots. After you have defeated them, a platform will
come down and you will be able to cross. Once on the other side, climb up the
rocks on the left side, then jump over to the one on the right to collect a
CROWN.


Jump down and pull the handle on the left wall. The gong will ring and show you
a combination. The order changes in each playthrough so just watch the
combination and then hit the bells in the correct order to open the gate. Go in
and you'll then face Metal Sonic. To defeat him, you'll need to hit the balls
he throws at you to send them back at him. Just avoid his attacks and hit the
balls when he throws them. You can also throw the ones already on the track.
Repeat this process three times to defeat him and get the Crystal.


Head back to left side of the beach area and start climbing the metal structure
in the middle of the water with Sonic. Jump from platform to platform and
home-attack the blue orbs to cross and reach your next objective. Unlock the
"gate" here and then go stand in the elevator in the center to enter the next
level.


Head left or right at the split and use Sonic or Amy to go up the ramp if you
take the right side, and jump up the ledge if you take the left side, to find a
secret room up inside the tube above. Break the grate in the room's back wall
to find a CROWN. Then head back out and defeat the enemies in the room ahead.
Pull the handle afterwards and collect the Crystal. Obviously, it couldn't be
that easy, so now you'll need to run from a large mechanical beast. Press
forward and move out until you outrun him.


In the new room, drop down and look on the left for a trail. Find the hidden X
and stomp it to obtain a SHINY. Then break the grate in the left wall to find a
CROWN. Go right and break the grate in the right wall to find a button. Press
it, then follow the trail of rings going down off the edge of the area to find
three more buttons below. Hit them, then go back up and jump on the spring to
the right of the room. Enter the opening here to find another secret room.
Break the crates and pull the handle on the left wall to reveal a CHEST.


Go back to the main room and use Amy or Sonic to climb up the back wall and use
the springs to reach the top of the room, which is an even bigger room. First,
turn around and go to the back of the area behind you, towards the screen to
find a CHEST. Then move onwards and defeat the robots. Pull the two handles
after that to lower the water/acid level. Start with Amy and go left. Jump on
the beams and head left to find a CROWN. Then go right and climb the beams to
the top. You'll find a CROWN on the upper path next to some springs. Jump on
them, then break the grate on the platform below and pull the handle. Make it
to the end of the beams and you'll reach a CHEST.


Now switch to Sonic and go right. Home-attack the blue orbs  to cross and open
the CHEST. Press the button under the crates to the left, then pull the handle
on the side of the path to pull out a platform. Jump on it and on the next ones
to collect the CROWN. Then jump on the spring and over the pipes to be back on
the path. Look on the floor here for a trail. Find the hidden X and ground
pound it to find a SHINY. Then use the spring to jump to the next part. Here,
break the grates in the wall and press the button. Then spin dash on the blue
sphere to raise a ramp. Use the ramp to get on the ledge above, where you'll
find a CROWN.


You'll then land in another part of the room. Press the green button in the
middle of the room. A platform will move over the acid below. Jump on it and
over the burning bars. Then use the spring and jump on the structure in the 
middle. Collect the CROWN and then go back using the spring. Pull the handles 
at the back of the room and the guardian will show up. Grab robots with the 
energy beam and throw them at the beast to get rid of him. Then pull the 
handles again and stomp the button to drain the water from the room. 


Now take the right path with Sonic and home-attack the blue orbs to cross. Go 
into the pipe and you'll find a CHEST on the other side. Now switch to Amy and
take the left path, crossing the beams. On the ledge here you will see a trail
on the ground. Locate the hidden X and slam it to obtain a SHINY. Then go into
the pipe and you'll find a CHEST. Jump on the first beam, but instead of going
right, jump on the spring to the left. You'll reach a higher beam which will
lead you to a CROWN.


Then follow the rest of the path to reach the other side of the area. Here,
turn around and jump on the moving platforms in the middle of the water,
avoiding the burning bars, to reach a CROWN. Then hit the two green buttons in
this area to reveal two new pathways on each side of the room. Go into the left
one with Amy to find a secret room. Hit the two switches in this room to reveal
a CROWN. Then switch to Sonic and enter his secret room on the right. Break the
machines on the right wall and hit the switch to reveal a CROWN. Go back to the
main room and use the springs at the back to reach the end of the room. Pull
the handle to open the door.


As you can expect from a suspicious looking hallway, the guardian will show up
once again to chase you. Run from him and avoid the obstacles until you outrun
him. In the next room, climb up on the right side to find a CHEST on the ledge
above and also press the button here. Then go to the left of the room and jump
on the pipe above the crown, then jump again and hit the button above it.
Collect the CROWN in the middle, then hit the four buttons in this room to open
the gate leading outside.


Destroy the robot enemies, then spin dash on the blue sphere to make a bounce
pad appear. Use it to reach the next section, where you'll find a CHEST on your
left. Then jump on the clams to go up and follow the path to reach the main
area after jumping on the spring. Right where you land, check the ground to
find a trail of footprints. Locate the hidden X and ground pound it to get a
SHINY. Then jump on the platform to the left with the two snails and jump on
the ship. Pull the handle here to blow up the wall ahead.


Then go back right and find a clam close by the right water wall to jump up.
Cross using the energy beam and get the CHEST on the other side. Then get in
the ship on the left and pull the handle to blow up another wall. Now go ahead
to that big wall and jump to the left of the anchor, to find a CHEST on a cliff
there. Then pull the handle next to the anchor to raise it. use the spring to
jump up and go right. Jump on the spring here to reach a CROWN. Then go left
and get the other CROWN in the path above. Smash the boulder to the left to
unblock the platform, then climb up and go right. Jump on the clam and cross
with the energy beam.


Jump over the obstacles, then go up using the clam and you'll notice the floor
here has a slight bump. Ground pound it to reveal a spring, then jump up and
collect the CROWN above. Slam the floor to leave this alcove and go left. Pull
the anchor and release it to destroy the boulders on the left. Jump over the
gap and then use the clam to head out of this area. You'll now need to defeat
some more robots. Then press the two buttons, and use the spring to go up. 
Before hitting the next button, walk south towards the screen and drop off 
the edge of the ship (opposite side of the button) to land on a ledge. Smash
the wall here to reveal a secret room which contains a CHEST. Then head back
up and hit the green button to lower a ramp and use the next springs to reach 
the other side of the area.


Re-enter the lab on this side and as soon as you enter, look to the right to
find a trail. Locate the hidden X and stomp it to get a SHINY. Then climb up
the wall at the back using Amy. At some point you'll have to jump on a spring
to grab a CROWN on the right. Then keep climbing up and you'll find a CHEST on
a ledge. When you reach the top, destroy all the robots, then use Amy to triple
jump on the pole above where a CROWN lies. Then hit the button on that pole to
move it, and then hit the button again after it moves until handles appear on
the structure. Pull them, then collect the Crystal.


There will be a very short section where you drive a submarine. Avoid the
obstacles or shoot them, then three guardians will attack you. Avoid their
attacks and shoot them until all three are gone. You will then be back on
Bygone Island.


There is now a new side quest available. Speak with the old hag on the beach
and he will ask you to find shells for his wife. The shells are located on the
water around the entrance of the previous level (left side of the beach area.)
Just go there on the water and run through the rings, then shells will appear.
Collect the eight shells then return to Pokey for the reward.


The other side quest you can do is talk to Perci near the farmlands and she
will ask you to activate the three defense systems around the town. They are
all in the beach area. Two are on the beach, and the last one is on the island
left of where you collected the shells. Just go around them and pull the
handles, then climb around and press the buttons. Once all three are activated,
talk to Perci again to get the reward.


Another side quest is located at the farmlands, talk to the farmer and he will
ask that you get rid of the enemies in his fields. There are two fields on each
side of his house (with the pink soil), just go there and use Knuckles with the
X button to dig them out and destroy them. Destroy all of them in the two
fields and then speak with the farmer to obtain your reward.


Now for your current objective, head to the second part of the town where the
small fountain is and go left from the fountain to find a creek. Take the ramp
here to be taken to the next level.


You'll start with a speed section. Shortly after the beginning, you'll bounce
up in the air after hitting a spring. You'll see a zip line ahead, but don't
use it, instead let yourself fall down to reach another area. Press the button
on the left and then use the springs to jump to the right and collect a CROWN
in the alcove above. Then leave this cave and finish the speed section. At the
very end of the track, you'll collect a CROWN as you fall down.


Once on the ground, head forward, but before climbing up in the wall here,
break the boulders to the left first to find a CHEST. Then jump on the springs
to go up and head left as soon as you can. Smash the boulders to the left to
remove the vine blocking the way, then go left and destroy the boulders to go
down. Get the CHEST on the left and the CROWN on the right. Then head back
right and jump up using the spring. Jump on the other spring to the right to go
up to the path above on the right. Destroy the boulders in the way to remove
the vines, then smash the floor at the end to go down. Everything will
collapse.


Smash through the floor to head down and wait for the boulders to collapse too,
revealing a CHEST on the left of the bottom floor. Then go back up using the
springs and jump back to the right. Use the energy beam to reach the CROWN.
Head back left and smash the boulder to remove the vine, then go left again and
use the spring to head up. Once you reach the top of the wall, destroy the
boulders here to reveal a CHEST. Also look on the floor to see a trail. Find
the hidden X and slam it to obtain a SHINY. Then get over to the next area.


Jump from platform to platform over the vines and go left, jump on the leftmost
platform behind a vine to find a CHEST. Then jump on the red crumbling
platforms to reach the top of the pillar nearby and get the CROWN. Then keep on
jumping from platform to platform until you reach the other side. Here, look at
the ground to find a trail. Locate the hidden X and stomp it to obtain a SHINY.
Then break the boulders on the left to reveal a spring and use it to jump up
above. Jump to the other cliff across to collect a CROWN.


Then get on the speed section and at some point you'll see a spring at the
right of the track. Jump on it to take another path and collect a CROWN. Then
keep following the track and at the end you will get another CROWN before
landing. Cross the crumbling path ahead and defeat the robots at the end. Break
the rocks on the right to reveal a CHEST, then head up the path. Use the zip
line to cross to the next part. Here, grab the robots with the energy beam and
throw them at the vines ahead until they are all gone.


Head up, then do the same thing with the enemies above. Throw them at the vines
on the left and right to reveal paths. On the right is a CROWN, and straight
ahead behind some boulders is a CHEST. There's also a trail on the ground here.
Find the hidden X and stomp it to obtain a SHINY. Then go left and navigate
your way through the maze to get a CHEST in the bottom-right corner, another
CHEST in the middle on the left hidden beneath a boulder, another CHEST in the
top-right corner under another boulder, and finally one other CHEST south from
the top-left corner. Then jump on the spring in the corner to exit this area.
You'll grab a CROWN up in the air as you land onto the next platform.


Defeat the enemies here, then use the zip line to reach the next area. Here
just watch out for the vines in the ground and make your way to the other side.
There's a CHEST in the middle and another CHEST on the left. Then use the ramp
at the end, destroy the enemies, pull the handles, and press the button. Now
you'll switch over to Tails and Amy. Before going on the speed track, turn
around and destroy the boulders behind you to find a CHEST. Then smash the
boulders on the right to reveal a spring. Go up and break the wall on the left
to find a secret room with a CROWN. Exit the room and go right. Jump to the
platform you can see a little higher from here to find some snakes and a
CROWN.


Then drop down and get on the speed section. At some point, you will run
through a path with a lot of vines to avoid on each side. Near the end of that
portion, grab the zip line you can see here and it will take you to a CROWN.
Then you'll get another CROWN just as you reach the end of the speed track.
After you land, check the floor to find a trail. Locate the hidden X and ground
pound it to obtain a SHINY. Move out to the gate ahead and Eggman will show up.
He will throw some missiles at you. Grab the missiles with the energy beam and
throw them back at the gate a couple times to break it down.


Then using Amy, jump on the beams ahead until you reach the other side. Now the
next part is hard to see because the camera won't move here, but as soon as you
land on the ground and Tails rejoins you, jump south towards the screen to find
another path. Use Tails on the vent here and go left to find a CROWN. Then go
right and use the spring to climb up in the area above. Here, break all the
numerous small crates to reveal the entrance to a secret room on the right.
Inside is a CHEST and a CROWN. Then leave the room and jump on the higher path
to the left. Before moving forward, head backwards south towards the screen to
find a CHEST.


Move on and you'll face a robot enemy. Get rid of him, then use the zip line.
The path will split into three. Start by taking the rightmost path to land in
an area with a trail of footprints on the ground. Find the hidden X and stomp
it to get a SHINY. Now you'll need to jump into the chasm to die and start over
at the beginning of the split if you want to get the other collectible. There's
no other way. At the split of the zip line, take the leftmost path this time to
reach another area. There's another trail here, so find the hidden X and slam
it to collect the SHINY. Then use the zip line here to get back to the middle
path.


Destroy all the boulders here to reveal a CROWN on the left, and a CHEST on the
right. Then head down into the area ahead and get the CHEST. Press the button
in the top-left corner, then get the other CHEST on the right and press the two
other buttons on the right. This will open panels with vents. Go to each one of
them and pull the handles to activate the vents and make some beams appear. Now
you can use the vents to grab the CROWN above, and climb up the beams to
collect another CROWN at the top. Then use the zip line at the end to reach the
next area.


Eggman will show up once again. This time you need to grab his missiles and
throw them at the two support pillars on each side to make the bridge collapse
on him. You'll meet back up with Sonic and Knuckles. Cross the fallen bridge
and in the next part, before going on the speed section, look to the left
behind some debris to find a CHEST. Then get on the speed track and at some
point parts of the road will fall down and you will jump on springs and then
use short zip lines to cross. Right after that part, quickly grab the next zip
line to collect a CROWN. Then keep following the path and you will come across
another CROWN to the left of the track.


Then you'll arrive at the end where a boss battle against Eggman will take
place. To defeat him, wait until he throws a bunch of missiles at you and avoid
them. They will fall on the ground. Now grab as many as you can quickly and
throw them back at him. After hitting him a bunch of times, the A button will
appear. Grab Eggman with the energy beam and pull him down. Once he's down
attack him as many times as possible. Repeat the exact same process two more
times, but with more annoying robots around, to defeat him. Then pick up the
Crystal.


Back at the Mystery Bay, a new side quest is now available. Speak with the
beaver on the right side of the previous level's entrance and he will ask you
to race. Simply run around the water here and pass through all the rings. It
asks you to beat his time and race before time runs out but... there is no
timer as far as I know so you can just take your time to complete this. Then
speak with the beaver again to receive your reward.

Now for the final objective and the two final levels, head back to the beach
area and go to the only place you haven't been to yet, that huge structure in
the middle of the water. Unlock the gate with the crystal you got and get
ready.

Head across the bridge only stepping on the tiles with vertical lines. Then
jump on the moving platform to the right of the bridge to reach a spring. Jump
on it to get to a side-scrolling section. Make it to the top to find a CROWN
then head back to the entrance. Break the block on the right of the gate so the
laser can reach the gate and open it. Inside the next room, you'll need to find
all the laser sources and unblock them.


Start by jumping on the beams to the left with Amy. Climb up and jump over to
the ledge on the left. Break the two blocks here. Then go back on the beams and
go all the way right. Break all the blocks on the platform here so the laser
can reach the gate. Then drop down behind that area to find a trail of
footprints. Find the X and stomp it to get a SHINY. Then go into the opening in
the wall and cross the bridge with the falling tiles. At the end of it you'll
find a CHEST. Then go back to the main room.


Go left and climb up the beams. Make your way across them and keep going right
across the obstacles to reach the CROWN at the end of the beams. Then keep
walking forward until you see a pink circle on the floor. Triple jump over it
to reach the beam. Follow it to the right and avoid the obstacles. Then use the
spring at the end to go up and break the blocks so the second laser can reach
the gate. Follow the ledge you are on and at the very end you'll see a trail on
the ground and a breakable wall. Find the X and stomp it to get a SHINY, then
smash the fake wall to reveal a secret room with a CHEST inside.


Drop back down below and keep going forward, past the red climbable wall. When
you get to the corner, you'll see a trail of rings to the right. Go to the edge
and move the camera down to see a platform below with a CHEST. Jump down to get
it, then get on the moving platform nearby and climb the ceiling with Knuckles
to reach a CROWN on the ledge. Then jump on the spring and you'll be back at
the entrance. Head back left and this time jump on the round platforms in the
middle of the area. Grab the CROWN, then break all the blocks on the last
platform to let the third and final laser hit the gate, which will open.


Head through the gate to the next area. Go left first and cross the falling
platforms. Then hit the springs and use the energy beam to land safely. Cross
the next few platforms to find a CROWN at the end, then you'll return to the
entrance. This time take the right path and cross using Amy or Knuckles. Jump
over the moving platforms then go left and jump on some more platforms. There's
a CROWN on one of them. Then jump on the springs to get up to the area above.
Go right first and you'll find a laser and two light reflectors that you can
move. Hit both of them to put them in place which will get the first laser to
the gate.


Continue forward and go right. You'll see a moving platform leading to a
structure on the other side. Before jumping on it though, look around for
stairs that you can go down with some rings leading underneath the platform.
Use Knuckles to climb on the ceiling and at the end you will find a CROWN. Now
you can get on the moving platform to cross to the other side. Climb up the
structure and hit all the reflectors into place. Also break the block and the
laser will point to the other structure across the gap. Go over there and hit
the reflectors to place them, then hit the last one to turn it towards the
gate. The second laser will now reach the gate. Before leaving this place, look
on the ground for footprints. Locate the hidden X and ground pound it to get a
SHINY.


Now go back to where you first entered this area and go left this time. Hit the
two light reflectors one time each to turn them around and the third laser will
reach the gate. Then continue forward and left. Go to the very end of the path
and you'll see square platforms at the edge of the area, going up along the
side of the wall. On the third platform you'll see that the wall has a
breakable part, so smash it to reveal a secret room where you'll find a CROWN
and a CHEST inside.


Back outside, go to the structure across the gap to the left with either Amy or
Knuckles. Climb up to the first room where the laser is. There is a CHEST at
the end of the ledge here. Then break the block and hit the reflectors until
the laser is pointing at the other structure on the other side. Cross over
there and hit the reflectors until the laser reaches the gate. Springs will
then appear. Jump on them to go up and get the CHEST on the right. Then jump on
the spring to the left to reach the area above, where you'll need to reflect
more lasers.


Start with the one close by; break the two blocks, then turn the reflector so
the laser is pointing left. Then go to the one at the end of the path, break
the blocks and turn it so the laser is pointing across to the other side. Then
use the zip line nearby to cross and break the blocks around the next
reflector, then turn it so the laser is pointing left. Now before going to the
last reflector, go to the very end of the path to find a CHEST. Then go to the
remaining reflector, break the blocks and turn it so the laser points at the
center.


After the cutscene, defeat the enemies and use the zip lines. Once across the
chasm, climb up to the left with Amy and use the beams to get around to the
other side of the door. Use the spring here to jump up on the door knobs and
then triple jump to reach the lock on the door and smash it down. Destroy both
locks on the door to open it. Defeat all the enemies and a ship will fly up to
you. Use Tails on the vent to get to the ship. You'll need to send some buddy
bots inside the domes to destroy all three of them. You might need to send
several into each because they keep on running off in the wrong direction it
seems. Once all three are down, the ship will fall down and you can now use the
zip line.


While you are on the zip line, there will be a CROWN on one of them, then
you'll need to switch to the left zip line so you don't fall off. Once you land
at the next gate, use Knuckles to climb up the wall and then pull the handle
once you reach the top. There's also a CHEST here. Then keep on climbing the
ceiling to reach the next handle. Defeat the robot and pull the handle to
unlock the gate below. Jump back down and go through the door.


In the area here, look on the ground to see a trail of footprints. Locate the X
and stomp it to collect a SHINY. Then use the zip line ahead to reach the next
area. Once you land, look at the ground to find another trail. Locate the
hidden X and ground pound it to obtain a SHINY. Then use Amy to climb up on the
ruins to the right and get the CROWN at the top. Then jump on the platforms
ahead and use the energy beam to cross. Defeat all the enemies, then switch to
Sonic and go left.


Home-attack the blue spheres to cross, then use the ramp at the end to go up.
Cross using the energy beam, then jump on the springs to reach the other side.
Use the springs and ramps to get above the gate. Before pressing the green
button here, follow the rings all the way to the other side of the ledge to
find a CHEST, then press the button to open the gate. After that, jump on the
spring that appeared to reach a speed section. Shortly after a steep path going
up, you will fly over several sets of springs; stomp (X button) while you pass
over the first springs to hit them and reach a CROWN. Then you'll get another
CROWN a little further on, and finally, you will reach the plane at the end,
which will take you to the final level.


Climb the cliff behind you, to the right of the crashed plane, to find a CHEST
behind some blocks at the top of the area. Then go left from where you started,
to the edge of the area, and drop down below. Check the ground to find a trail
and locate the hidden X to get a SHINY after stomping it. Then head forward and
break the crates ahead to reveal a green button. Slam it to make some springs
appear. Use them to jump to the next area where enemies are waiting for you.
Defeat them all, then use the springs at the back.


In the area above, you'll see a handle behind a grate. Smash the grate, then
pull the handle and a tube will come down and release a CROWN. Hop into the
tube to reach an alcove below where a CHEST awaits. Then get back up and enter
the speed section ahead. At some point you'll need to press a button to set the
track ahead. A little after that, grab the zip line nearby and it will take you
to a CROWN. Now if you want to get the other collectible here you'll need to
try and die so you can restart the speed section, since you can't get both on
the same run (or just get it next time you do the level). Instead of using the
aforementioned zip line, stay on the track and then you'll fly over a pit and
see another zip line. Don't use that one either. Instead just let yourself fall
down and you'll land in an area with many platforms. Climb to the top and get
the CROWN then keep following the track and at the end you'll grab yet another
CROWN before landing in the next area.


You'll need to destroy a bunch of robots here, then QNC will show up and raise
some platforms for you. First, get the CHEST on the left, then climb up the
platforms. Jump through the lasers on the left and grab the CROWN. In the area
past the lasers, look at the ground to find a trail; locate the X and stomp it
to obtain a SHINY (under the crates). Then hit the four buttons and cross to
the other side using the spring and the energy beam.


In the next area pull the handles in the right wall and some enemies will show
up. Defeat them, then two more handles will appear in the back wall. Pull them,
defeat more enemies, then two more handles will appear. Pull them and two
things will appear: a spring and a tube. Start by jumping on the spring to
reach a ledge with a CHEST and a tunnel covered by a grate. Smash down the
grate and enter the tunnel to find a secret room with another CHEST. Leave this
room and jump in the tube this time to reach a higher area.


Pull the handle on the left, then hit the button and go down the elevator. Use
Tails on the vent to the right to collect a CROWN above. Then go left past the
ramp to see a trail on the ground. Find the X and ground pound it to get a
SHINY. Then spin dash up the ramp with Sonic to get another CROWN. Go back up
the elevator and head into the speed track to reach the next area. This is
another one of these floors with the blue tiles that you need to step on in
order to make some springs appear.


Defeat the enemies above, then you'll need to solve another tile "puzzle". More
enemies will then show up; beat them up and step on even more tiles. Then pull
the handle in the wall to raise some platforms. Climb them up and collect the
CROWN. Then get on the speed track and you'll circle around a worm before
arriving in the next area. Pull the handle here, then step on the tiles on the
right. Pull the next handle below and step on the tiles, again. Then look to
the right of platform and you should see there is another platform underneath
this one. Drop down there to find a CHEST, then get back up.


A beam has appeared to the right as well. Use Amy to jump on it, go right then
walk south, press the button and then go into the area that just opened. Triple
jump to reach the CROWN on the pillar then press the button to leave this area.
Go and pull the last handle and then solve the last tile "puzzle", finally. Use
the zip line to leave this place and then you'll need to fight off more robot
enemies. Then you'll fall down to a speed section. At some point, you'll see a
zip line in the air, but don't use it. Let yourself fall down to an area below
with many green buttons. Hit the first one, then jump on the spring. You'll
need to use Amy to jump and hit the button the left pipe. On this pipe you'll
find a CROWN. Then go right and jump on the spring. At the end of the speed
section, you'll collect another CROWN as you land into the new area.


Fight the robots here, then QNC will raise some platforms for you. Climb up,
press the button, then cross to the left using the energy beam and open the
CHEST. Hit the button to deactivate the barriers below. Drop down and step on
the blue tiles. Then pull the handles that appeared and step on the tiles
again. Pull the handles once more and enemies will come down. Defeat them and
step on the tiles again. Pull the handles again and a tube will come down. Get
the CROWN then enter the tube to reach the area above.


Before pressing the buttons here, go left to the edge of the area and drop down
to fall on a platform below. Check the floor for a trail; find the X and stomp
it for a SHINY. Then smash down the grate in the wall and enter the tunnel to
find a secret room with a CROWN and a CHEST. Head back up to the area with the
four buttons and press them to open the door. Go into the speed track to reach
another area and head forward. Destroy the robot, then head through the right
door and through the next speed section.


Near the beginning of the track, you'll be send flying up to a green button.
Use Amy and jump to the right of it to reach a ledge with a CROWN. If you fall
down, just use the springs to get back up. Then press the button to raise the
track and keep following it until you get to the end. You'll collect another
CROWN just before landing ahead.


Now is time to finally face Lyric. Just attack him normally, then he will fall
to the ground eventually and the A button will appear. Grab his tail with the
energy beam and pull it to lower one of the barriers. The first one is Tails'
so head over to the crystal and break it. Then repeat the same process and just
attack Lyric, and then pull his tail. The next one will be Knuckles so climb to
the end of the path and break the crystal. Then do the same thing again with
Amy, and then with Sonic. Once you have all the crystals, beat up Lyric some
more to defeat him and watch the ending.


These are the collectibles for the two hub worlds. For the collectibles in
the other levels, you will find their locations explained directly in the
walkthrough for each of these levels.


1. At the very very beginning of the hub world where you first started off,
there is a chest on the cliffs (near the area with the turtle guy).

2. At the right of the start of the hub world, past the excavation site with
the crane, there is an area with a lot of boulders. Break them to reveal a
chest in one of the alcoves.

3. In the first small quarry where you pressed the three buttons to cross,
there's a chest at the back of the quarry behind some crates.

4. To the left of the cook's tent, climb up the cliff and spend some robot
parts to excavate the giant robot. Now you can use the bounce pad to the left
to start climbing the giant robot. Make your way to the right and use the
spring at the end to find the chest.

5. In the area with the mine carts, push the rightmost mine cart into the wall
to break the wooden planks. Go into this secret area to find a chest.

6. Also in the area with the mine carts, push the farthest mine cart left and
then jump in it to reach the cliff above. Hit the green button here to lower
the gate below. Now push the middle mine cart down that track and then jump in
it to reach the ledge above where a chest awaits.

7. In the mine section of the hub world, just as you enter the mine, there is a
chest to the right.

8. Still in the mine, in the secret room where you got the first Crystal, there
is a chest on the left of where the Crystal was.

9 & 10. These chests are obtainable in the section of the mine where you rescue
the miners. They're covered in the walkthrough if you scroll up.

11. After opening the gate leading to the Abandoned Facility level (near the
turtle guy), head up and fly up the vent using Tails. There's a chest at the
right on the ledge up here.

12. At the right of the start of the hub world, past the excavation site with
the crane, there's a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to run
across the water and head over to the structure in the middle of the lake. Jump
on the third pillar to find a chest.

13. After crossing the bridge with the speed boosts at the beginning of the hub
world, go left to find a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to
cross the water and reach the piece of land on the other side. Break the wooden
planks blocking the two handles here and pull them to raise two platforms. Use
them to cross and find a chest.

14. In the area where you help the sailor retrieve the pieces for the boat,
there is a chest where you get the second piece (high ledge near entrance).

15. Still in the same area with the sailor, climb up the red wall with Knuckles
to the right of the first "windmill" to find a chest.

16. Also in the area with the sailor, there is a chest on the small island
where you got the third piece for the boat (use the spring on top of the second
windmill-thing).

17. Right after the speed section that starts near where the nurse is, you'll
land at a watermill. Look on the left of the waterwheel  (behind the little
fence) to find a chest hidden behind some barrels.

18. When you get to the large structure in the middle of the water after the
speed section at the watermill (where Cliff was waiting with the plane), climb
to the top of the wooden structure and walk past the green button and the
spring. Use Tails to fly from the edge of the structure to the archway just
ahead where a chest is.

19. To the left of the large structure mentioned above, there are some ruins in
the water. Use Tails or Sonic to reach them and jump on the lower archways so
you can climb up. Use the springs to jump higher on them and check all the
pillars. On one of them is chest.

20. On the same ruins as mentioned above, there is another chest on a pillar,
but this one is little trickier to find. Go on top of the highest pillar which
is close to the structure where Cliff was waiting with the plane. You can see
close to the rockface another pillar which appears too far to reach. Double
jump and glide over to it with Tails to find the chest.


1. At the right of the start of the hub world (opposite side of the turtle
guy), spend robot points to fix the excavation site. The crane will break the
wall revealing a crown. To reach it, break the crates, then pull the handle and
jump on the platforms.

2. To the left of the first small quarry where you pressed the three buttons to
cross, spend some robot parts to rebuild the camp site. You can now climb on
the rooftops and find a crown.

3. To the left of the cook's tent, climb up the cliff, use the springs at the
left and use the energy beam to cross. Spend some robot parts to clear up the
blocked path. It leads to a speed section. At some point you will enter a cave;
grab the zip line to the right as the cave starts to collect a crown.

4. In the same section as mentioned above, you will collect a crown as you get
near the end of the speed section. Use the zip line near the end.

5. To the left of the cook's tent, climb up the cliff and spend some robot
parts to excavate the giant robot. Now you can use the bounce pad to the left
to start climbing the giant robot. Make your way to the right and use the
spring at the end to jump up, then jump to the left on the scaffholding and use
the energy beam and springs to climb to the very top of the robot, where a
crown awaits.

6. In the mine section of the hub world, spend some robot parts to excavate the
structure in the middle and a crown will appear.

7. Still in the mine, go in the secret passageway in the left wall that leads
to a small room with three breakable walls. One of them holds a crown.

8, 9 & 10. These crowns are obtainable in the section of the mine where you
rescue the miners. They're covered in the walkthrough if you scroll up.

11. At the right of the start of the hub world, past the excavation site with
the crane, there's a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to run
across the water and check near where the watermill is to find a crown on a
wooden beam.

12. In the same spot as mentioned above, but head over to the structure in the
middle of the lake to find a crown on the second pillar.

13. After crossing the bridge with the speed boosts at the beginning of the hub
world, go left to find a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to
run over the water and check somewhere to the left of the waterfalls, behind a
cliff to find a crown on the water.

14. In the same spot as mentioned above, but head over to the piece of land on
the other side of the water and jump on the cliff to the left to find a crown.

15. As soon as you get on the speed section near where the nurse is, jump on
the first spring you see, then you'll glide over four springs. If you don't do
it anything, you'll just fly past. What you must do is press Y as you pass over
the springs to slam them and then you'll collect a crown.

16. Exact same as above, but the spring will be a little bit after the start,
after you go through a loop. Stay on the left side, take the spring, then slam
the springs above to bounce on them and collect the crown.

17. Also on the same speed track as mentioned above, but right before you get
off it at the end. You can't really miss this crown.

18. After the speed section mentioned above, you'll land at a watermill. Here
you can take a second speed track. Near the beginning of this track, you'll be
able to grab a zip line at some point. Use the energy beam on it and it will
take you to a crown.

19. At the very end of the speed section mentioned above, you'll jump into a
crown. You can't miss that one.

20. From the watermill after the speed track near the nurse, go into the water
with Sonic or Tails. Take the left way to reach a pat of the water with mine
carts passing by. One of them has a crown on the mine cart.

21. Same area as above, another crown over a mine cart, just a little further
ahead.

22. From the watermill after the speed track near the nurse, go into the water
with Sonic or Tails. Take the right way this time and you'll see a crown in
plain view in the middle of the water.

23. Same area as above, just a little further ahead, a crown rests over the
water between some moving wooden beams.

24. When you get to the large structure in the middle of the water after the
speed section at the watermill (where Cliff was waiting with the plane), climb
to the top of the wooden structure and walk past the green button and the
spring. Use Tails to fly from the edge of the structure to the archway just
ahead where a chest is. There is a crown to the right at the end of the
archway.

25. At the large structure mentioned above, climb to the top of the woonden
scaffholdings and press the green button to activate a bounce pad. Use it to
reach another speed section. A little after the beginning of the track, after
going through a loop, you'll see a zip line. Use the energy beam on it, then
you'll land on another track. Jump to hit the switch here to change the path
and you'll get a crown on the next zip line.

26. You'll need to re-do the speed section mentioned above from the start to
get this one, as it requires a different path on the same track. A little after
the beginning, after the loop and the springs, you'll jump up and see the zip
line. Don't take it. Instead let yourself fall down. You'll be in an area with
two moving wheels. Use the springs to jump up and grab the crown in the
top-right corner.

27. At the very end of the speed section mentioned above, you'll collect this
crown as you land back at the watermill. You can't miss it.


1. There's a trail on the cliffs right where you first started the hub world.

2. From the entrance of the hub world, go right past the crane to an area with
a lot of boulders. There's a trail on the ground here.

3. From the entrance of the hub world, go left through the gate near where
the turtle guy is, and jump up the springs to reach the area above (where the
Abandoned Reseach Facility level starts). Look on the left side to find a
trail of footprints near the pine tree.

4. After crossing the bridge with the speed boosts at the beginning of the hub
world, go left to find a portal leading into the water. Use Sonic or Tails to
run over the water and head for the land on the other side. Check the ground
on the right side to find a trail.

5. To the left of the first small quarry where you pressed the three buttons to
cross, go through the gate here (which leads to the area where the sailor is)
and look to the right of the elevator for a trail on the ground. There are
rings forming a square around the location of the X.

6. In the area where the sailor is, follow the shore to the left from where
his house is and at the very end of the area is a trail.

7. Also in the area with the sailor, this trail is on the little island where
you had found the third piece for the boat previously.

8. There is a trail on the cliff right above the cook's tent.

9. In the mine area, follow the trail of rings to the left of where the
breakable wall leading to the secret room is and at the end of the path
you'll emerge back outside of a ledge. There are footprints here.

10. Also in the mine area, in the secret room where you found the very first
crystal, there is a trail right next to where the crystal was.


1. At the leftmost tip of the beach area (left from where you start) behind
a big boulder.

2. At the leftmost tip of the beach area, use the spring to climb up the cliff
above and you'll find a chest at the end of the ledge.

3. Go to the right part of the beach area where the structure (defense system)
is and look in the grass close to the wall surrounding the village, there is
a chest behind a boulder there (near a speed boost).

4. In the right part of the beach area, there are some pillars over the
water with moving platforms which lead to a structure (that later becomes
the Ocean Purification Plant level). Jump to the last pillar before the
structure to find a chest (cross by home-attacking the blue orbs with Sonic).

5. In the right part of the beach area, cross the water with Tails or Sonic
to reach the small piece of land with a structure (defense system). Behind
the structure is a chest.

6. Right at the entrance of the first part of the village, spend some robot
parts to repair the area to the left. Then use the spring to go up and head
right until you pass through the second wooden wheel. Jump down and look on
the left for a chest.

7. In the very same area as mentioned above, after the part with the second
wooden wheel, you'll then reach a part with a wooden panel going up and
down. Jump on the spring here while the panel is down, then jump to the
left. There's a chest on the platform above.

8. In the first part of the village, spend robot parts at the second
repair station to rebuild the well (it's close to a small fountain on
the left wall). Then jump inside the well to find a crown and a chest.

9. In the second part of the village (the left one), at the left of the
entrance is a speed ramp. Use Sonic to go up, then go right by home-attacking
the blue orbs and use the springs at the end. Jump over the platforms to the
left to reach a chest.

10. At the end of the second part of the village, on the cliff behind the 
fountain. It's beyond the small wooden footbridge and next to a little hut.

11. Also near the foutain in the second part of the village, where you can
spend some robot parts to rebuild a house here, climb on the pink beam
here with Amy and go right. Before the spring, jump to climb on the beam
above and jump to the left. Jump on the springs here to reach a higher
beam and hit the green button on the wall. You'll open up a ledge where
you'll find a chest sitting atop the village.

12. Same spot as mentioned above, but after getting on the pink beam,
go right and jump on the spring (instead of jumping up). Continue all the
way to the right, jump on the pole, then you'll reach the rooftop of a
house next to the entrance gate. There's a chest here.

13. After getting the chest mentioned above, jump on the rooftop to the
left, in the back (you'll need to go around the chest, get behind the pipe,
then go left and jump north, otherwise if you just try to go left Amy will
get stuck in side-scrolling 2D lane and you won't be able to jump there).
Smash down the fake wall in the back here to reveal a chest.

14. In the northwest part of the island (where the sailor looking for his
brother is), go up the spring at the start, then jump on the ledge to the
right to find a chest.

15. From the chest mentioned above, go north and east to a seemingly empty
area. At the very back of this area, up the cliffs, jump on the spring to 
reach the ledge above where a chest awaits.

16. In the ruined structure in the northwest part of the island (where you
open the gate to access the Crater Lake level), use Amy to climb up the
beams and at the top-right corner of her section you'll find a chest.

17. Same area as mentioned above, climb the red walls as Knuckles and at
the very top of the wall you'll find a chest.

18. Same area as mentioned above, use Sonic to spin dash up the ramp and
climb up. When you are on the moving pillar, go right and at the end of
the path you'll find a chest above.

19. Same area as mentioned above, use Tails to fly all the way up to the
green button that you need to press to open Crater Lake. There's a chest
at the left in this area.

20. In the farmlands, there's a chest on a ledge right above the farmer's
northern field (the purple-red ground).

21. North of the farmlands, use the spring on the left to reach a little
house on a cliff above. There's a chest on the right.

22. At the end of the farmlands, cross the bridge to the right and break the
barrels on the left side to reveal a spring. Jump on it then use the energy
beam to cross over to a chest.

1. Right where you start on the beach, there is an archway above you next to
the checkpoint. Use Amy to jump on top and get the crown.

2. At the leftmost tip of the beach area, use the spring to climb up the cliff
above and spend robot parts to repair the hut here. The crown is inside.

3. To the right of where you start on the beach, there's a rock with a 
spring on it. Jump on it and then use Tails or Amy to jump on the other
spring in the nearby tree. The springs will take you to a crown.

4. In the right part of the beach area, there are some pillars over the
water with moving platforms which lead to a structure (that later becomes
the Ocean Purification Plant level). Jump to the first pillar and look
underneath it; there is a lower ledge with a crown.

5. Right at the entrance of the first part of the village, spend some robot
parts to repair the area to the left. Then use the spring to go up and head
right until you see a wooden wheel. Check under the wheel, a little to the
right (under the steel wall) to find a hidden crown.

6. In the very same area as mentioned above, after the part with the second
wooden wheel, you'll then reach a part with a wooden panel going up and
down. Jump on the spring here while the panel is down, then jump on the
platforms to the right to reach a crown.

7. Still in the same area as mentioned above, drop down in the gap on the 
left, but stay on the wooden ledge here. Smash the wall to your right to
reveal a path underneath. It will take you to a crown.

8. In the first part of the village, spend robot parts at the second
repair station to rebuild the well (it's close to a small fountain on
the left wall). Then jump inside the well to find a crown and a chest.

9. In the second part of the village (the left one), at the right of the
entrance is a crown behind some wooden planks. Smash them to collect it.

10. In the second part of the village, close to where Sticks is, (where
the green lush area starts) there's a pink beam that leads up to a spring 
and a crown. Use Amy to get up there.

11. In the northwest part of the island (where the sailor looking for his
brother is), jump on the springs at the start, then go north and press the 
green button on the ground. Three pillars will start going up and down in 
motion. Jump on the right one and then jump on the cliff to the right.
There is a breakable wall up here with a crown inside.

12. Same area, but jump on the south pillar, then jump on the other cliff
close by. Then use the energy beam to cross to the other ledge. Then cross 
again to reach the area on the other side. Press the button here to make 
the pillar go up and jump on it to reach the crown above.

13. Exact same area as mentioned above, spend some robot parts to rebuild
the hut here and then look inside to find a crown.

14. In the ruined structure in the northwest part of the island (where you
open the gate to access the Crater Lake level), use Amy to climb up the
beams and in the top-left corner of her section, jump on the pole to reach
a crown up in the air.

15. Same area as mentioned above, climb the red walls as Knuckles and as
you climb up, there will be a crown at the top of the middle section.


16. Same area as mentioned above, use Sonic to spin dash up the ramp and
climb up. When you are on the moving pillar, jump to the left to find
a crown at the end of the ledge.

17. At the entrance of the farmlands, go left and climb up the red wall with
Knuckles. At the very top is a crown.

18. North of the farmlands, use the spring on the left to reach a little
house on a cliff above. Cross the footbridge here and spend some robot parts
to rebuild the hut. Inside it is a crown.

19. At the end of the farmlands, cross the bridge to the right and break the
barrels on the left side to reveal a spring. Jump on it then use the energy
beam to cross over to a chest. Follow the ledge to the right for a crown.


1. Next to where you meet Sticks, in the grass area near the upgrade pillar.

2. From the starting point on the beach, go a bit left where the structure is
(the defense system) and go north up to the village's surrounding wall. Look
on the left, in the shadows of the trees, for a trail between where the wall
and the rockface meet.

3. At the leftmost tip of the beach area (left from where you start).

4. To the right of where you start on the beach, there is a big tower over
the water with stairs leading to it (later becomes the Sky Citadel level).
Before the last set of stairs, check the ground for footprints.

5. Go to the rightmost part of the beach area where the portal to access the
water-surfing is. Near this place is a little spot of grass with some trees
and a big boulder with a spring. Look at the base of this boulder to find
a trail in the grass between a tree and the big boulder.

6. In the right part of the beach area, cross the water with Tails or Sonic
to reach the small piece of land with a structure (defense system). Look
around the structure for footprints in the sand (under a rotating platform).

7. In the right part of the beach area, there are some pillars over the
water with moving platforms which lead to a structure (that later becomes
the Ocean Purification Plant level). Use Sonic to reach that structure
by jumping on the pillars and look at the north edge of it for a trail.

8. At the entrance of the first part of the village, look on the left where 
you can spend some robot parts to rebuild the area here to find a trail
under the wooden ramp. It goes up to the tree on the other side.

9. Just before the entrance to the second part of the village (the one to
the left of where the mayor is), check the ground for footprints near the
big tree. The trail starts to the left of the gateway and stops in the 
shadow of the house nearby. 

10. At the end of the second part of the village (the left one), look at the 
left of the fountain for a trail that stops in front of the house there.

11. Also at the end of the second part of the village, but on the cliff
behind the fountain. It's beyond the small wooden footbridge and left of a 
chest and a little hut.

12. In the northwest part of the island (where the sailor looking for his
brother is), jump on the springs at the start, then go north and press the 
green button on the ground. Three pillars will start going up and down in 
motion. Use Amy to jump on them and reach the cliff nearby. Then use the 
energy beam to cross to the other cliff. Then cross again to reach the area 
on the other side. Look around this area, on the lower ledge, to find a
trail of footprints on the right side.

13. In the ruined structure in the northwest part of the island (where you
open the gate to access the Crater Lake level), check on the right immediatly
as you enter the structure to find footprints on the ground.

14. North of the farmlands, use the spring on the left to reach a little
house on a cliff above. Drop down on the ledge just below the house to find
a trail of footprints.

15. At the end of the farmlands, cross the bridge to the right and then check
the left side for some barrels hidding a spring. Next to the spring is a 
trail of footbridges.

